





































































































































































































































































































  
  
  
  
  
                                                          Exeunt
                                                          HAMLET.'
                                                         Exeunt.
                                                         Exeunt.
                                                         Exeunt.
                                                         Exeunt.
                                                         Exeunt.
                                                         Exeunt.
                                                         Exeunt.
                                                         Exeunt.
                                                         Exeunt.
                                                         grave.]
                                                        [Reads.]
                                                       Polonius.
                                                     'HAMLET.'
                                                     Exit Ghost.
                                                     Exit Ghost.
                                                     Exit Ghost.
                                                    [Exit Lord.]
                                                    [He] sleeps.
                                                    Attendants].
                                                   [Exit Queen.]
                                                   [They swear.]
                                                   are shot off.  
                                                   Exit Horatio.
                                                  Exit Reynaldo.
                                                 [Exit Horatio.]  
                                                 [March within.]
                                                 A noise within.
                                                 Exeunt Players.
                                                 Exit Messenger.
                                                 The cock crows.
                                                [Exit Polonius.]
                                                [Ghost beckons.]  
                                                [Gives a paper.]
                                                [Laertes falls.]
                                                Exit [Polonius].
                                                Exit [Polonius].  
                                                Prepare to play.
                                               [Exit Attendant.]
                                               [Exit Gentleman.]
                                               Exeunt Gentlemen.
                                               Spreads his arms.
                                             [Reads] the letter.
                                             [Scatters flowers.]
                                             Leaps in the grave.
                                            [Exeunt Attendants.]
                                            [Exit First Player.]
                                            [Exit Second Clown.]  
                                            [Grapples with him].
                                            [Throws up a skull.]
                                           Ghost beckons Hamlet.
                                          [Puts down the skull.]
                                         [Retires with Horatio.]  
                                        [Exeunt all but Hamlet.]
                                        [Exeunt all but Hamlet.]  
                                        Exeunt [all but Hamlet].
                                        Exeunt Ghost and Hamlet.
                                      Exeunt King and Polonius].
                                      Throws up [another skull].
                                   Exeunt [all but the Captain].
                                   Pours the poison in his ears.
                                  [Sits down at Ophelia's feet.]  
                                 Exeunt Voltemand and Cornelius.
                                Flourish. Exeunt all but Hamlet.
                              [Polonius hides behind the arras.]
                              A noise within: 'Let her come in.'
                              Exeunt all but Hamlet and Horatio.
                            'He that thou knowest thine, HAMLET.'
                            [Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern
                            Enter a Lord.
                            Enter Polonius.
                            Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
                            Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern]
                           [Hamlet moves him to put on his hat.]
                           Enter Hamlet.
                           Enter Queen.
                          [Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.]
                          Enter Hamlet.
                          Enter Sailors.
                          Exeunt [Rosencrantz and Guildenstern].
                         [Lifts up the arras and sees Polonius.]
                         Enter Ghost.
                         Enter Hamlet.
                         Enter Lucianus.
                         Enter Polonius.
                        Enter Ghost.
                        Enter Polonius.
                       [Clown digs and] sings.
                       carrying torches.
                       Enter Ophelia.
                       Enter Polonius.  
                       Exeunt King and Queen, [with Attendants].
                      Enter Ghost again.
                      Enter Horatio.
                      Enter Ophelia.  
                      Enter Prologue.
                     Enter a Messenger.
                     Enter four or five Players.
                     Enter the Players with recorders.  
                     Flourish for the Players.
                    [The King puts Laertes' hand into Hamlet's.]
                    change rapiers, [and Hamlet wounds Laertes].
                    Enter Horatio and Marcellus.  
                    Enter King.
                    Enter Laertes with others.
                    Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
                    Enter Rosencrantz.
                   A flourish of trumpets, and two pieces go off.
                   Enter Horatio and Marcellus.
                   Enter King and Polonius.
                   Enter Polonius.
                  [Exit the Queen. Then] Exit Hamlet, tugging in
                  Colours, and Attendants.
                 Enter a Messenger with letters.
                 Enter Hamlet and Horatio afar off.
                 Enter Hamlet, reading on a book.
                 Enter Ophelia distracted.
                 Enter young Osric, a courtier.
                 Exeunt Polonius and Players [except the First].
                 Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, [with some
                 Ghost cries under the stage.
                [Laertes wounds Hamlet; then] in scuffling, they
                Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
                Enter the Ghost in his nightgown.
               [Drum; trumpets sound; a piece goes off [within].
               A table and flagons of wine on it.  
               Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
               Hautboys play. The dumb show enters.
              Alack, and fie for shame!
              All in the morning bedtime,
              An thou hadst not come to my bed.'
              And dupp'd the chamber door,
              At his heels a stone.
              Attendants with foils and gauntlets.
              By Cock, they are to blame.
              Enter [two Players as] King and Queen.  
              Enter Polonius, Voltemand, and Cornelius.
              For such a guest is meet.
              He is dead and gone;
              Never departed more.
              To be your Valentine.
              You promis'd me to wed.'
             [The Attendants part them, and they come out of the
             Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
             Queen, Laertes, with Lords attendant.]
            'So would I 'a' done, by yonder sun,
            [Makes a pass through the arras and] kills Polonius.
            And I a maid at your window,
            At his head a grass-green turf,
            But never doubt I love.
            Doubt that the sun doth move;
            Enter Polonius, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern.
            Exeunt marching; after the which a peal of ordnance
            Let in the maid, that out a maid
            Quoth she, 'Before you tumbled me,
            Then up he rose and donn'd his clo'es
            Young men will do't if they come to't
           'As by lot, God wot,'
           'It came to pass, as most like it was.'
           (Hey non nony, nony, hey nony)
           A very, very- pajock.
           And his sandal shoon.
           And we cast away moan.
           As if I had never been such.
           For and a shrouding sheet;
           For such a guest is meet.
           From another one?
           Go to thy deathbed;
           Hath clawed me in his clutch,
           He is gone, he is gone,
           Larded all with sweet flowers;
           No, no, he is dead;  
           The which he loved passing well.'
           This realm dismantled was  
           With true-love showers.
          'Doubt thou the stars are fire;
          Doubt truth to be a liar;
          Enter Horatio, Marcellus, and Bernardo.
          The hart ungalled play;
          Thus runs the world away.
         'One fair daughter, and no more,
         'The rugged Pyrrhus, he whose sable arms,
         'The rugged Pyrrhus, like th' Hyrcanian beast-'
         A pickaxe and a spade, a spade,
         All flaxen was his poll.
         And hath shipped me intil the land,
         And in his grave rain'd many a tear.
         And thus o'ersized with coagulate gore,
         And will he not come again?
         And will he not come again?
         Bak'd and impasted with the parching streets,
         Black as his purpose, did the night resemble
         But age with his stealing steps
         By his cockle bat and' staff
         For if the King like not the comedy,
         For some must watch, while some must sleep:
         For thou dost know, O Damon dear,
         God 'a'mercy on his soul!
         Hath now this dread and black complexion smear'd  
         He never will come again.
         His beard was as white as snow,
         How should I your true-love know
         Methought it was very sweet;
         Now is be total gules, horridly trick'd
         O, a Pit of clay for to be made  
         O, methought there- a- was nothing- a- meet.
         Of Jove himself; and now reigns here
         Old grandsire Priam seeks.'
         That lend a tyrannous and a damned light
         They bore him barefac'd on the bier
         To their lord's murther. Roasted in wrath and fire,
         When he lay couched in the ominous horse,
         Which bewept to the grave did not go
         Why then, belike he likes it not, perdy.
         With blood of fathers, mothers, daughters, sons,
         With eyes like carbuncles, the hellish Pyrrhus
         With heraldry more dismal. Head to foot
        Enter Hamlet and Guildenstern [with Attendants].
       Enter Hamlet, Rosencrantz, [Guildenstern,] and others.
       In youth when I did love, did love,
       To contract- O- the time for- a- my behove,
      'Gainst Fortune's state would treason have pronounc'd.
      'O dear Ophelia, I am ill at these numbers; I have not art to
      'Thine evermore, most dear lady, whilst this machine is to him,
      (Unless things mortal move them not at all)
      A blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up-  
      A second time I kill my husband dead
      A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still,
      About her lank and all o'erteemed loins,
      About the world have times twelve thirties been,
      An anchor's cheer in prison be my scope,
      And as my love is siz'd, my fear is so.
      And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven,
      And hitherto doth love on fortune tend,
      And never come mischance between us twain!
      And never did the Cyclops' hammers fall
      And passion in the gods.'
      And thirty dozed moons with borrowed sheen
      And thou shalt live in this fair world behind,
      And who in want a hollow friend doth try,
      And, like a neutral to his will and matter,
      Are base respects of thrift, but none of love.
      Aroused vengeance sets him new awork;
      As hush as death- anon the dreadful thunder
      As low as to the fiends!
      be otherwise.
      Both here and hence pursue me lasting strife,
      Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel,
      But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead.
      But fill unshaken when they mellow be.
      But if the gods themselves did see her then,
      But what we do determine oft we break.
      But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword  
      But woe is me! you are so sick of late,
      But, as we often see, against some storm,
      But, orderly to end where I begun,  
      Confederate season, else no creature seeing;
      Did nothing.
      Directly seasons him his enemy.
      Discomfort you, my lord, it nothing must;
      Doth rend the region; so, after Pyrrhus' pause,
      Each opposite that blanks the face of joy
      For 'tis a question left us yet to prove,
      For husband shalt thou-
      For who not needs shall never lack a friend,
      For women's fear and love holds quantity,
      Grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident.
      Guildenstern, and other Lords attendant, with the Guard
      Here stooping to your clemency,
      Honour'd, belov'd, and haply one as kind
      If, once a widow, ever I be wife!
      In general synod take away her power;
      In Mincing with his sword her husband's limbs,
      In neither aught, or in extremity.
      Make us again count o'er ere love be done!
      Meet what I would have well, and it destroy,
      Most necessary 'tis that we forget
      My operant powers their functions leave to do.
      My spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguile
      Neptune's salt wash and Tellus' orbed ground,
      None wed the second but who killed the first.
      Now falls on Priam.
      Now what my love is, proof hath made you know;
      Of reverend Priam, seem'd i' th' air to stick.
      Of violent birth, but poor validity;
      On Mars's armour, forg'd for proof eterne,
      On wholesome life usurp immediately.
      Ophelia,'-
      Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own.
      Our wills and fates do so contrary run
      Out, out, thou strumpet Fortune! All you gods,  
      phrase.
      Purpose is but the slave to memory,
      Pyrrhus at Priam drives, in rage strikes wide;
      Rebellious to his arm, lies where it falls,
      Repugnant to command. Unequal match'd,
      Seeming to feel this blow, with flaming top
      Since love our hearts, and Hymen did our hands,
      So far from cheer and from your former state.
      So think thou wilt no second husband wed;
      So, as a painted tyrant, Pyrrhus stood,
      Sport and repose lock from me day and night,
      Stoops to his base, and with a hideous crash
      Striking too short at Greeks. His antique sword,
      Such love must needs be treason in my breast.
      Takes prisoner Pyrrhus' ear. For lo! his sword,
      Th' unnerved father falls. Then senseless Ilium,
      That even our loves should with our fortunes change;
      That I distrust you. Yet, though I distrust,
      That our devices still are overthrown;
      The bold winds speechless, and the orb below
      The great man down, you mark his favourite flies,
      The instant burst of clamour that she made
      The passion ending, doth the purpose lose.
      The poor advanc'd makes friends of enemies;
      The tedious day with sleep.
      The violence of either grief or joy
      Their own enactures with themselves destroy.
      This world is not for aye, nor 'tis not strange
      Thou mixture rank, of midnight weeds collected,
      Thy natural magic and dire property
      To desperation turn my trust and hope,
      To pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt.
      Unite comutual in most sacred bands.
      We beg your hearing patiently.                     [Exit.]
      What to ourselves in passion we propose,
      When second husband kisses me in bed.
      When second husband let me be accurst!
      When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport
      Where joy most revels, grief doth most lament;
      Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe,
      Where little fears grow great, great love grows there.
      Where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear;
      Whether love lead fortune, or else fortune love.
      Which now, like fruit unripe, sticks on the tree,  
      Which was declining on the milky head
      Who this had seen, with tongue in venom steep'd
      With bisson rheum; a clout upon that head
      With Hecate's ban thrice blasted, thrice infected,
      With less remorse than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword
      Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven
     discretion.
    'Good sir,' or so, or 'friend,' or 'gentleman'-
    'I saw him enter such a house of sale,'
    'In her excellent white bosom, these, &c.'
    'Laertes shall be king! Laertes king!'
    'Lord Hamlet is a prince, out of thy star.
    'Now the King drinks to Hamlet.' Come, begin.
    'Swounds, I should take it! for it cannot be
    'That can denote me truly. These indeed seem,
    'This must be so.' We pray you throw to earth
    'Thus didest thou.'
    'Tis dangerous when the baser nature comes
    'Tis given out that, sleeping in my orchard,
    'Tis heavy with him; and am I then reveng'd,
    'Tis meet that some more audience than a mother,  
    'Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother,
    'Tis not so; it begins with Pyrrhus:
    'Tis now the very witching time of night,
    'Tis strange.
    'Tis told me he hath very oft of late
    'Tis too much prov'd, that with devotion's visage
    'To the celestial, and my soul's idol, the most beautified
    'Twere better not assay'd. Therefore this project
    'twere, the mirror up to nature; to show Virtue her own feature,
    (As how should it be so? how otherwise?),
    (As I perceiv'd it, I must tell you that,
    (As I perchance hereafter shall think meet
    (For so this side of our known world esteem'd him)
    (for the most part) are capable of nothing but inexplicable dumb
    (For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death),
    (Marcellus and Bernardo) on their watch
    (My fears forgetting manners) to unseal
    (O God! a beast that wants discourse of reason
    (O royal knavery!), an exact command,
    (Sings) He is dead and gone, lady,  
    (Sings) To-morrow is Saint Valentine's day,
    (Sings) White his shroud as the mountain snow-
    (Things standing thus unknown) shall live behind me!
    [Aside] To my sick soul (as sin's true nature is)
    [Reads]'High and Mighty,-You shall know I am set naked on your
    [Sings] By Gis and by Saint Charity,  
    [Sings] For bonny sweet Robin is all my joy.
    [Sings] O, a pit of clay for to be made
    [To Laertes] Strengthen your patience in our last night's speech.
    A baseness to write fair, and labour'd much
    A broken voice, and his whole function suiting
    A brother's murther! Pray can I not,
    A chalice for the nonce; whereon but sipping,
    a chough; but, as I say, spacious in the possession of dirt.  
    A combination and a form indeed
    A couch for luxury and damned incest.
    A cutpurse of the empire and the rule,
    A damn'd defeat was made. Am I a coward?
    A double blessing is a double grace;
    A dull and muddy-mettled rascal, peak
    A face without a heart,'
    A fault against the dead, a fault to nature,
    A heart unfortified, a mind impatient,
    A kind of wick or snuff that will abate it;
    a kind of yesty collection, which carries them through and
    A little ere the mightiest Julius fell,
    A little month, or ere those shoes were old
    A man that Fortune's buffets and rewards
    A minist'ring angel shall my sister be
    A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee.
    A rhapsody of words! Heaven's face doth glow;
    A sable silver'd.
    A savageness in unreclaimed blood,
    A scullion!  
    A serpent stung me. So the whole ear of Denmark
    A sister driven into desp'rate terms,
    A slave that is not twentieth part the tithe
    A station like the herald Mercury
    A sword unbated, and, in a pass of practice,
    a thing to you from his Majesty.
    A thought which, quarter'd, hath but one part wisdom
    A very noble youth. Mark.
    A villain kills my father; and for that,
    A violet in the youth of primy nature,
    A worthy pioner! Once more remove, good friends."
    about the mazzard with a sexton's spade. Here's fine revolution,
    Absent thee from felicity awhile,
    Abuses me to damn me. I'll have grounds
    According to the phrase or the addition
    act hath three branches-it is to act, to do, and to perform;
    action how like an angel! in apprehension how like a god! the
    Acts little of his will. Tell me, Laertes,
    Addicted so and so'; and there put on him
    Adieu, adieu, adieu! Remember me.                      Exit.  
    Admit no messengers, receive no tokens.
    affectation; but call'd it an honest method, as wholesome as
    Affront Ophelia.  
    After the Danish sword, and thy free awe
    After the thing it loves.
    again.
    Against the which a moiety competent
    against the which he has impon'd, as I take it, six French
    against their own succession.
    Against thy mother aught. Leave her to heaven,
    Against yourself. I know you are no truant.
    Ah, mine own lord, what have I seen to-night!
    air, look you, this brave o'erhanging firmament, this majestical
    Alas, how shall this bloody deed be answer'd?
    Alexander was buried, Alexander returneth into dust; the dust is
    All from her father's death. O Gertrude, Gertrude,
    All given to mine ear.
    All may be well.                                  He kneels.
    All my smooth body.
    All saws of books, all forms, all pressures past
    all welcome. We'll e'en to't like French falconers, fly at
    Almost to jelly with the act of fear,
    alone became their prisoner. They have dealt with me like thieves
    altitude of a chopine. Pray God your voice, like a piece of
    amazement and admiration.
    amble, and you lisp; you nickname God's creatures and make your  
    Among a mineral of metals base,
    An eye like Mars, to threaten and command;
    An hour of quiet shortly shall we see;
    An understanding simple and unschool'd;
    ancient gentlemen but gard'ners, ditchers, and grave-makers. They
    And (would it were not so!) you are my mother.
    And a man's life is no more than to say 'one.'
    And a most instant tetter bark'd about,  
    And after we will both our judgments join
    And all we mourn for.  
    And am most sensibly in grief for it,
    And at our more consider'd time we'll read,  
    And at the sound it shrunk in haste away
    and aunt-mother are deceiv'd.
    And batten on this moor? Ha! have you eyes
    And bear it to the chapel.
    And bid me hold my peace. I pray you all,
    And blow them at the moon. O, 'tis most sweet
    And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.
    And botch the words up fit to their own thoughts;
    And both neglect. What if this cursed hand
    And bow them to your gracious leave and pardon.
    And break your own neck down.
    And breath of life, I have no life to breathe
    And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is.
    And by opposing end them. To die- to sleep-
    And call it accident.
    And call the noblest to the audience.
    And can say nothing! No, not for a king,
    And carriage of the article design'd,
    And cleave the general ear with horrid speech;
    And convoy is assistant, do not sleep,
    And could of men distinguish, her election
    And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee
    And curd, like eager droppings into milk,
    And do not spread the compost on the weeds
    And do such bitter business as the day
    And do't the speedier that you may direct me
    And draw you into madness? Think of it.
    And drive his purpose on to these delights.
    And duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed  
    And each particular hair to stand an end
    And either [master] the devil, or throw him out
    And end his being. That done, he lets me go,
    And enterprises of great pith and moment
    And even the like precurse of fierce events,
    And ever three parts coward,- I do not know
    And fall a-cursing like a very drab,
    And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest!
    And for his death no wind
    And for my means, I'll husband them so well
    And for my soul, what can it do to that,
    And for that purpose I'll anoint my sword.
    And for the day confin'd to fast in fires,
    And for your part, Ophelia, I do wish
    And for your rapier most especially,
    And foreign mart for implements of war;
    And from her fair and unpolluted flesh  
    And from his mother's closet hath he dragg'd him.
    And from his mouth whose voice will draw on more.
    And gather by him, as he is behav'd,
    And gave you such a masterly report
    And gem of all the nation.
    And gins to pale his uneffectual fire.
    And hath abatements and delays as many  
    And he beseech'd me to entreat your Majesties
    And he not from his reason fall'n thereon
    And he to England shall along with you.
    And he, repulsed, a short tale to make,
    And hears it roar beneath.
    And here give up ourselves, in the full bent,
    and here's some for me. We may call it herb of grace o' Sundays.
    And his commission to employ those soldiers,
    and his tricks? Why does he suffer this rude knave now to knock
    And hit the woundless air.- O, come away!
    And how his audit stands, who knows save heaven?
    And how, and who, what means, and where they keep,
    And hurt my brother.
    And I am sick at heart.
    And I believe it is a fetch of warrant.
    And I beseech you instantly to visit
    And I do doubt the hatch and the disclose
    And I do think- or else this brain of mine
    And I the matter will reword; which madness
    And I with them the third night kept the watch;
    And I'll be plac'd so please you, in the ear
    And I, of ladies most deject and wretched,
    And if thou prate of mountains, let them throw
    And in a postscript here, he says 'alone.'
    And in part him.' Do you mark this, Reynaldo?
    And in the cup an union shall he throw
    And in the morn and liquid dew of youth
    And in the porches of my ears did pour
    And in this brainish apprehension kills
    And in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain,
    And it must follow, as the night the day,
    And keep you in the rear of your affection,  
    And lay your hands again upon my sword.
    And leads the will to desperate undertakings
    And let all sleep, while to my shame I see
    And let him know so.
    And let him, for a pair of reechy kisses,
    And let me speak to the yet unknowing world
    And let me wring your heart; for so I shall
    And let the kettle to the trumpet speak,
    And let them know both what we mean to do
    And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark.
    And let us hear Bernardo speak of this.
    And let us once again assail your ears,
    And live the purer with the other half,
    And lose the name of action.- Soft you now!
    And lose your voice. What wouldst thou beg, Laertes,
    And makes as healthful music. It is not madness
    And makes each petty artire in this body
    And makes us rather bear those ills we have
    and many more of the same bevy that I know the drossy age dotes
    And many such-like as's of great charge,
    And marshal me to knavery. Let it work;
    And meant to wrack thee; but beshrew my jealousy!
    And melt in her own fire. Proclaim no shame  
    And more above, hath his solicitings,
    And much offence too. Touching this vision here,
    And my imaginations are as foul
    And my young mistress thus I did bespeak:
    And not have strew'd thy grave.
    And not where I had aim'd them.
    And nothing is at a like goodness still;
    And now I'll do't. And so he goes to heaven,
    And now no soil nor cautel doth besmirch
    And now, Laertes, what's the news with you?
    And of all Christian souls, I pray God. God b' wi', you.
    And oft 'tis seen the wicked prize itself
    And our affairs from England come too late.  
    And our vain blows malicious mockery.
    And pious action we do sugar o'er  
    And pity 'tis 'tis true. A foolish figure!
    And prais'd be rashness for it; let us know,
    And prey on garbage.
    And prologue to the omen coming on,
    And put it in his pocket!  
    And reason panders will.
    And recks not his own rede.
    And scape detecting, I will pay the theft.
    And set a double varnish on the fame
    And sets a blister there; makes marriage vows
    And shall I couple hell? Hold, hold, my heart!
    and shows a most pitiful ambition in the fool that uses it. Go  
    And since so neighbour'd to his youth and haviour,
    And so am I reveng'd. That would be scann'd.
    And so, without more circumstance at all,
    And spur my dull revenge! What is a man,
    And stand a comma 'tween their amities,
    And still your fingers on your lips, I pray.
    And sure I am two men there are not living
    and sure, dear friends, my thanks are too dear a halfpenny. Were
    And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes,
    And tell you what I know.
    And terms compulsatory, those foresaid lands
    And that he calls for drink, I'll have prepar'd him
    And that his soul may be as damn'd and black
    And that I see, in passages of proof,
    And that in Hamlet's hearing, for a quality
    And that in way of caution- I must tell you
    And that our drift look through our bad performance.
    And that shall lend a kind of easiness
    And that your Grace hath screen'd and stood between
    And that, I hope, will teach you to imagine-  
    And the King's rouse the heaven shall bruit again,
    And then this 'should' is like a spendthrift sigh,
    And then, they say, no spirit dare stir abroad,
    And there assume some other, horrible form
    And there did seem in him a kind of joy
    And there I see such black and grained spots
    And therefore I forbid my tears; but yet
    And therefore must his choice be circumscrib'd
    And these few precepts in thy memory
    And they can well on horseback; but this gallant  
    And they in France of the best rank and station
    And they shall hear and judge 'twixt you and me.
    And think it pastime. You shortly shall hear more.
    And thou must cure me. Till I know 'tis done,
    And thrice his head thus waving up and down,
    And thus a while the fit will work on him.
    And thus do we of wisdom and of reach,
    And thus the native hue of resolution
    And thy best graces spend it at thy will!
    And thy commandment all alone shall live
    And to such wondrous doing brought his horse
    And to the last bended their light on me.
    And to the manner born, it is a custom
    And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge
    And vanish'd from our sight.
    And wager on your heads. He, being remiss,
    And waits upon the judgment; and what judgment
    And wants not buzzers to infect his ear
    And we beseech you, bend you to remain
    And we did think it writ down in our duty
    and we had the trick to see't. Did these bones cost no more the
    And we shall jointly labour with your soul
    And what make you from Wittenberg, Horatio?
    And what so poor a man as Hamlet is
    And what's in prayer but this twofold force,
    And what's untimely done. [So haply slander-]
    And whatsoever else shall hap to-night,
    And when he's not himself does wrong Laertes,
    And when you are desirous to be blest,
    And where 'tis so, th' offender's scourge is weigh'd,
    And where th' offence is let the great axe fall.
    And why such daily cast of brazen cannon
    And will not let belief take hold of him
    And will not wrong it.
    And will this brother's wager frankly play.
    And with a larger tether may he walk
    And with a look so piteous in purport
    And with a sudden vigour it doth posset
    And with his head over his shoulder turn'd
    And with no less nobility of love
    And with such coz'nage- is't not perfect conscience
    And with such maimed rites? This doth betoken
    And with th' encorporal air do hold discourse?
    And with them words of so sweet breath compos'd
    And you are stay'd for. There- my blessing with thee!
    And you must needs have heard, how I am punish'd
    And You must put me in your heart for friend,
    And you the judges, bear a wary eye.
    And you yourself shall keep the key of it.
    And you, my sinews, grow not instant old,
    And, as he drains his draughts of Rhenish down,
    And, as I think, they have already order
    And, as the sleeping soldiers in th' alarm,
    And, as the world were now but to begin,
    And, as you said, and wisely was it said,
    And, but that great command o'ersways the order,
    And, England, if my love thou hold'st at aught,-
    And, in this upshot, purposes mistook
    And, like a man to double business bound,
    And, like the kind life-rend'ring pelican,
    And, mermaid-like, awhile they bore her up;
    And, sister, as the winds give benefit
    And, with his other hand thus o'er his brow,
    Anon, as patient as the female dove
    answer is I can make, you shall command; or rather, as you say,
    Answer, and think upon this business.
    Antiquity forgot, custom not known,
    anything we see. We'll have a speech straight. Come, give us a
    Appears before them and with solemn march
    appurtenance of welcome is fashion and ceremony. Let me comply
    Are burnt and purg'd away. But that I am forbid  
    Are here arriv'd, give order that these bodies
    Are joyfully return'd.
    Are mortis'd and adjoin'd; which when it falls,
    Are most select and generous, chief in that.
    are no better), their writers do them wrong to make them exclaim
    are unwrung.
    argal, she drown'd herself wittingly.
    Armed at point exactly, cap-a-pe,
    Art more engag'd! Help, angels! Make assay.  
    article, and his infusion of such dearth and rareness as, to make
    As 'twere a thing a little soil'd i' th' working,
    As 'Well, well, we know,' or 'We could, an if we would,'
    As any the most vulgar thing to sense,
    As are companions noted and most known
    As by your safety, wisdom, all things else,
    As checking at his voyage, and that he means
    As day does to your eye.
    As deep as to the lungs? Who does me this, ha?
    As did that one; and that, in my regard,
    As e'er my conversation cop'd withal.
    As England was his faithful tributary,
    As false as dicers' oaths. O, such a deed
    As fits a king's remembrance.
    As from the body of contraction plucks  
    As had he been incorps'd and demi-natur'd
    As harbingers preceding still the fates
    As hardy as the Nemean lion's nerve.
    As he in his particular act and place
    As he is very potent with such spirits,
    As he would draw it. Long stay'd he so.
    As hell, whereto it goes. My mother stays.
    As I do thee. Something too much of this I
    As if he had been loosed out of hell
    As if increase of appetite had grown
    As if it some impartment did desire
    As in their birth,- wherein they are not guilty,
    As infinite as man may undergo-  
    As it behooves my daughter and your honour.
    As it did seem to shatter all his bulk
    As it doth well appear unto our state,
    As it hath us'd to do- that I have found  
    As it is common for the younger sort
    As kill a king, and marry with his brother.  
    As level as the cannon to his blank,
    As love between them like the palm might flourish,
    As made the things more rich. Their perfume lost,
    As make your bouts more violent to that end-
    As may dishonour him- take heed of that;
    As meditation or the thoughts of love,
    As my great power thereof may give thee sense,
    As needful in our loves, fitting our duty?
    As of a father; for let the world take note
    As oft as any passion under heaven
    As one incapable of her own distress,
    As one, in suff'ring all, that suffers nothing;
    As peace should still her wheaten garland wear
    As stars with trains of fire, and dews of blood,
    As there are tongues, are hands, are accidents;
    As therein are set down.
    As they fell out by time, by means, and place,
    As thus, 'I know his father and his friends,
    As to expend your time with us awhile
    As to give words or talk with the Lord Hamlet.
    As to peace-parted souls.
    As Vulcan's stithy. Give him heedful note;
    As watchman to my heart. But, good my brother,
    As we have warranty. Her death was doubtful;
    As will not leave their tinct.
    As you are friends, scholars, and soldiers,
    as your daughter may conceive. Friend, look to't.
    assigns, and three liberal-conceited carriages: that's the French
    Assume a virtue, if you have it not.
    At gaming, swearing, or about some act
    At last, a little shaking of mine arm,
    At least I am sure it may be so in Denmark.        [Writes.]
    At least, the whisper goes so. Our last king,
    Attends the boist'rous ruin. Never alone
    Awake the god of day; and at his warning,
    Away! for everything is seal'd and done
    Ay, thou poor ghost, while memory holds a seat
    bad epitaph than their ill report while you live.
    bar the door upon your own liberty, if you deny your griefs to
    Be all my sins rememb'red.
    Be as ourself in Denmark. Madam, come.
    Be buried quick with her, and so will I.
    Be but to sleep and feed? A beast, no more.
    Be soft as sinews of the new-born babe!
    Be something scanter of your maiden presence.
    Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damn'd,
    be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as snow, thou shalt not escape
    Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar:
    Be thy intents wicked or charitable,
    Be wary then; best safety lies in fear.
    Be you and I behind an arras then.
    Be you content to lend your patience to us,
    Bear Hamlet like a soldier to the stage;
    Bear't that th' opposed may beware of thee.
    Bears such an emphasis? whose phrase of sorrow
    beauty of the world, the paragon of animals! And yet to me what
    beck than I have thoughts to put them in, imagination to give
    Becomes the field but here shows much amiss.
    Been struck so to the soul that presently
    Been thus encount'red. A figure like your father,
    Before mine uncle. I'll observe his looks;
    Before my daughter told me), what might you,
    Before You visit him, to make inquire
    Behind the arras hearing something stir,
    Behind the arras I'll convey myself
    Being a thing immortal as itself?  
    Being nature's livery, or fortune's star,
    believe none of us. Go thy ways to a nunnery. Where's your
    Believe so much in him, that he is young,
    bellow for revenge.
    Bestial oblivion, or some craven scruple
    bet against the Danish. Why is this all impon'd, as you call it?
    better proposer could charge you withal, be even and direct with
    Between the pass and fell incensed points
    Blasted with ecstasy. O, woe is me
    Blasting his wholesome brother. Have you eyes?  
    boarded them. On the instant they got clear of our ship; so I
    bonnet to his right use. 'Tis for the head.
    Both countenance and excuse. Ho, Guildenstern!
    Both to my God and to my gracious king;
    Bow, stubborn knees; and heart with strings of steel,
    Break we our watch up; and by my advice  
    Breathing like sanctified and pious bawds,
    breeding but to play at loggets with 'em? Mine ache to think
    Brief let me be. Sleeping within my orchard,
    Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell,
    brings back to him, that you attend him in the hall. He sends to
    brought, the gentleman willing, and the King hold his purpose,
    Burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye!
    But answer made it none. Yet once methought
    But bear me stiffly up. Remember thee?
    But better look'd into, he truly found
    But break my heart, for I must hold my tongue!
    But come!
    But do not dull thy palm with entertainment
    But do not go with it!
    But even his mother shall uncharge the practice  
    But even then the morning cock crew loud,
    But farewell it, for I will use no art.  
    But from what cause he will by no means speak.
    But greatly to find quarrel in a straw
    But he's an arrant knave.
    But how does it well? It does well to those that do ill. Now,
    But I am pigeon-liver'd and lack gall
    But I am very sorry, good Horatio,
    But I do prophesy th' election lights  
    But I have that within which passeth show-
    But I will delve one yard below their mines
    But if you hold it fit, after the play
    But if't be he I mean, he's very wild
    But in a fiction, in a dream of passion,
    But in battalions! First, her father slain;
    But in our circumstance and course of thought,
    But it reserv'd some quantity of choice
    But keep a farm and carters.
    But let it be. Horatio, I am dead;
    But let me hear from you.
    But let that go.
    But let this same be presently perform'd,
    But look, amazement on thy mother sits.
    But look, the morn, in russet mantle clad,
    But mad in craft. 'Twere good you let him know;
    But mere implorators of unholy suits,  
    But never the offence. To bear all smooth and even,
    But not express'd in fancy; rich, not gaudy;
    but now the time gives it proof. I did love you once.
    But now, my cousin Hamlet, and my son-
    But on! Six Barbary horses against six French swords, their
    But our cold maids do dead men's fingers call them.
    But pardon't, as you are a gentleman.
    But since he is better'd, we have therefore odds.
    But since, so jump upon this bloody question,
    But soft! behold! Lo, where it comes again!
    But soft! but soft! aside! Here comes the King-
    But soft! methinks I scent the morning air.
    But sure the bravery of his grief did put me
    But that I know love is begun by time,
    But that the dread of something after death-
    But that this folly douts it.                          Exit.
    But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell,
    But this eternal blazon must not be
    But this most foul, strange, and unnatural.
    But to confront the visage of offence?
    But to my mind, though I am native here  
    But to recover of us, by strong hand
    But truly I do fear it.
    But two months dead! Nay, not so much, not two.
    But virtue, as it never will be mov'd,
    But we will ship him hence; and this vile deed
    But what is your affair in Elsinore?
    But what, in faith, make you from Wittenberg?
    But wilt thou bear me how I did proceed?
    But with a crafty madness keeps aloof
    But yet to me they are strong. The Queen his mother
    But you must know, your father lost a father;
    But you shall hear. Thus:
    But you'll be secret?
    But, howsoever thou pursuest this act,
    But, in the gross and scope of my opinion,
    But, in the verity of extolment, I take him to be a soul of great
    But, like the owner of a foul disease,
    But, sir, such wanton, wild, and usual slips
    Buys out the law; but 'tis not so above.
    By desperate appliance are reliev'd,
    By heaven, I'll make a ghost of him that lets me!-
    By heaven, it is as proper to our age
    By heaven, thy madness shall be paid by weight
    By indirections find directions out.
    By laboursome petition, and at last
    By letters congruing to that effect,
    By the mass, I was about to say something! Where did I leave?
    By the o'ergrowth of some complexion,
    By their oppress'd and fear-surprised eyes,
    by them, in his meed he's unfellowed.
    By this encompassment and drift of question
    By what it fed on; and yet, within a month-
    Calls virtue hypocrite; takes off the rose
    calumny. Get thee to a nunnery. Go, farewell. Or if thou wilt
    Can serve my turn? 'Forgive me my foul murther'?
    Can you advise me?
    Caps, hands, and tongues applaud it to the clouds,
    carpenter?
    carried away. The Poisoner wooes the Queen with gifts; she
    carry cannon by our sides. I would it might be hangers till then.  
    Carrying, I say, the stamp of one defect,
    Carve for himself, for on his choice depends
    chamber, and tell her, let her paint an inch thick, to this
    choose but weep to think they would lay him i' th' cold ground.
    Christians, nor the gait of Christian, pagan, nor man, have so
    chronicles of the time. After your death you were better have a
    church. Argal, the gallows may do well to thee. To't again, come!
    city? Are they so follow'd?
    Clamb'ring to hang, an envious sliver broke,  
    clouts.
    Colleagued with this dream of his advantage,
    Collected from all simples that have virtue
    Come hither, gentlemen,
    Come on! You hear this fellow in the cellarage.
    Come short of what he did.
    Come, Gertrude, we'll call up our wisest friends
    Come, I will give you way for these your letters,
    Come, sir, to draw toward an end with you.
    Come, some music!
    Come.
    Come. (They play.) Another hit. What say you?
    Comes armed through our watch, so like the King
    comes in again, seem to condole with her. The dead body is
    Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works.
    Confound the ignorant, and amaze indeed
    Conjures the wand'ring stars, and makes them stand
    Conscience and grace, to the profoundest pit!
    Consent to swear.
    Contagion to this world. Now could I drink hot blood
    Contagious blastments are most imminent.
    continual practice. I shall win at the odds. But thou wouldst not
    Convert his gives to graces; so that my arrows,
    convocation of politic worms are e'en at him. Your worm is your
    Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy,  
    Couch we awhile, and mark.
    Could force his soul so to his own conceit
    Could not (with all their quantity of love)
    Could not so mope.
    Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed,
    counsel. Come, my coach! Good night, ladies. Good night, sweet
    Craves the conveyance of a promis'd march
    Cries cuckold to my father; brands the harlot
    crown, kisses it, pours poison in the sleeper's ears, and
    Cry to be heard, as 'twere from heaven to earth,
    Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin,
    Dangerous conjectures in ill-breeding minds.
    Dar'd to the combat; in which our valiant Hamlet
    dare scarce come thither.
    Dear maid, kind sister, sweet Ophelia!
    defence?
    Delay it not; I'll have him hence to-night.
    Deliberate pause. Diseases desperate grown
    demanded of a sponge, what replication should be made by the son
    Denmark?- What, my young lady and mistress? By'r Lady, your
    Depriv'd thee of! Hold off the earth awhile,
    desert, and who should scape whipping? Use them after your own  
    deserved at the hands of Fortune that she sends you to prison
    Devis'd a new commission; wrote it fair.
    Devoutly to be wish'd. To die- to sleep.
    Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables.
    Did forfeit, with his life, all those his lands
    Did Hamlet so envenom with his envy
    Did not together pluck such envy from him
    Did slay this Fortinbras; who, by a seal'd compact,
    Did sometimes march? By heaven I charge thee speak!
    Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets;  
    did the first murther! This might be the pate of a Politician,
    Did the king sigh, but with a general groan.
    died. They say he made a good end.
    Dies in his own too-much. That we would do,
    Dies not alone, but like a gulf doth draw  
    Disasters in the sun; and the moist star
    discourse most eloquent music. Look you, these are the stops.
    discourse to your beauty.
    discovery, and your secrecy to the King and Queen moult no
    Divided from herself and her fair-judgment,
    Do I impart toward you. For your intent  
    Do not as some ungracious pastors do,
    Do not believe his vows; for they are brokers,
    Do not for ever with thy vailed lids
    Do not itself unkennel in one speech,
    Do you believe his tenders, as you call them?
    Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it,
    do, crawling between earth and heaven? We are arrant knaves all;
    Does by their own insinuation grow.
    Does not divide the Sunday from the week.
    Doom'd for a certain term to walk the night,
    Dost thou hear me, old friend? Can you play 'The Murther of
    Doth all the noble substance often dout To his own scandal.
    Doth make the night joint-labourer with the day?
    Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat
    Drabbing. You may go so far.
    dreadfully attended. But in the beaten way of friendship, what
    Drink off this potion! Is thy union here?
    dungeons, Denmark being one o' th' worst.
    Each small annexment, petty consequence,
    Each toy seems Prologue to some great amiss.
    Ears without hands or eyes, smelling sans all,
    earth; of earth we make loam; and why of that loam (whereto he
    Eats not the flats with more impetuous haste
    Else could you not have motion; but sure that sense
    Elsinore.
    end his part in peace; the clown shall make those laugh whose
    end.
    enough, and likelihood to lead it; as thus: Alexander died,
    Enquire me first what Danskers are in Paris;
    Enter [priests with] a coffin [in funeral procession], King,
    Enter a King and a Queen very lovingly; the Queen embracing
    Enter Fortinbras and English Ambassadors, with Drum,
    Enter King, Queen, Laertes, Osric, and Lords, with other
    entertainment than yours. You are welcome. But my uncle-father
    entertainment the players shall receive from you. We coted them
    epitaph is 'For O, for O, the hobby-horse is forgot!'
    equivocation will undo us. By the Lord, Horatio, this three years
    Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears
    ere you had done.
    escoted? Will they pursue the quality no longer than they can
    especially where he speaks of Priam's slaughter. If it live in
    Even for an eggshell. Rightly to be great
    Even here between the chaste unsmirched brows
    Even in their promise, as it is a-making,
    Even on the pith of life. Where is he gone?
    Even to the teeth and forehead of our faults,
    Even while men's minds are wild, lest more mischance
    Even with the very comment of thy soul
    excellence; but to know a man well were to know himself.
    excellent voice, in this little organ, yet cannot you make it
    Exchange forgiveness with me, noble Hamlet.
    Excitements of my reason and my blood,
    Exposing what is mortal and unsure
    Extorted treasure in the womb of earth
    Eyes without feeling, feeling without sight,
    eyes. Prithee no more!
    faculties! in form and moving how express and admirable! in
    Fall ten times treble on that cursed head
    Fall'n on th' inventors' heads. All this can I
    Fare you well, my dove!
    Farewell, and let your haste commend your duty.
    Farewell, dear mother.
    Farewell.
    Farewell. My blessing season this in thee!
    father?
    favour she must come. Make her laugh at that. Prithee, Horatio,
    favours?
    fay, I cannot reason.
    Fear it, Ophelia, fear it, my dear sister,
    feather. I have of late- but wherefore I know not- lost all my
    Feeds on his wonder, keep, himself in clouds,
    Fell in the weeping brook. Her clothes spread wide
    Fell into a sadness, then into a fast,
    Fie on't! ah, fie! 'Tis an unweeded garden
    Fie upon't! foh! About, my brain! Hum, I have heard
    find him not within this month, you shall nose him as you go up
    fines, his double vouchers, his recoveries. Is this the fine of
    Finger'd their packet, and in fine withdrew
    fingers and thumbs, give it breath with your mouth, and it will
    first mouth'd, to be last Swallowed. When he needs what you have
    Fix'd on the summit of the highest mount,
    Folded the writ up in the form of th' other,
    Follow my mother.                                 King dies.
    For 'tis the sport to have the enginer
    For art and exercise in your defence,
    For bearers of this greeting to old Norway,  
    For by the image of my cause I see
    For England.
    for England. Of them I have much to tell thee. Farewell.
    For every man hath business and desire,
    For food and diet, to some enterprise
    For good Polonius' death, and we have done but greenly
    For goodness, growing to a plurisy,
    For he himself is subject to his birth.
    For he was likely, had he been put on,
    For Hecuba!
    For her perfections. But my revenge will come.
    For I mine eyes will rivet to his face,
    For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
    For in the fatness of these pursy times
    For it is as the air, invulnerable,
    For like the hectic in my blood he rages,
    For loan oft loses both itself and friend,
    For look you how cheerfully my mother looks, and my father died
    for love- very near this. I'll speak to him again.- What do you
    For me, with sorrow I embrace my fortune.
    For murther, though it have no tongue, will speak
    For my part, I do not lie in't, yet it is mine.
    For nature crescent does not grow alone
    For out o' doors he went without their help
    For that which thou hast done,- must send thee hence
    For the apparel oft proclaims the man,
    For the demand of our neglected tribute.
    For the supply and profit of our hope,
    For they are actions that a man might play;
    For this effect defective comes by cause.
    For use almost can change the stamp of nature,
    For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither,
    For we will fetters put upon this fear,
    For what advancement may I hope from thee,  
    For what we know must be, and is as common
    For who that's but a queen, fair, sober, wise,
    For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,
    For your desire to know what is between us,
    for your succession in Denmark?
    For, though I am not splenitive and rash,
    Fordo it own life. 'Twas of some estate.
    form and pressure. Now this overdone, or come tardy off, though
    Form of the thing, each word made true and good,
    Forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep;
    fortunes turn Turk with me-with two Provincial roses on my raz'd
    Forward, not permanent- sweet, not lasting;
    Free me so far in your most generous thoughts  
    freely, or the blank verse shall halt fort. What players are
    Friends both, go join you with some further aid.
    From fashion of himself. What think you on't?
    From me, whose love was of that dignity
    From our achievements, though perform'd at height,
    From that particular fault. The dram of e'il
    From the fair forehead of an innocent love,
    From the first corse till he that died to-day,
    From whence though willingly I came to Denmark
    full of most excellent differences, of very soft society and
    further trade with us?
    gentleman.'
    gentlewoman, she should have been buried out o' Christian burial.
    gently; for in the very torrent, tempest, and (as I may say)
    Get from him why he puts on this confusion,
    Get you a place.
    Give every man thine ear, but few thy voice;
    Give him the cup.
    Give it an understanding but no tongue.
    Give me my father!
    Give me one poor request.
    Give me the cup. Let go! By heaven, I'll ha't.
    Give us the foils. Come on.
    Give you good night.                                   Exit.
    Give, me superfluous death.                  A noise within.
    Given private time to you, and you yourself
    given you one face, and you make yourselves another. You jig, you
    Gives him three thousand crowns in annual fee
    Giving more light than heat, extinct in both
    Giving to you no further personal power
    glean'd, it is but squeezing you and, sponge, you shall be dry
    Go on. I'll follow thee.
    Go seek him out; speak fair, and bring the body
    Go to their graves like beds, fight for a plot
    Go to your rest; at night we'll feast together.
    Go, bid the soldiers shoot.
    God bless you, sir!
    God willing, shall not lack. Let us go in together;
    Goes slow and stately by them. Thrice he walk'd
    gone, far gone! And truly in my youth I suff'red much extremity
    Gonzago'?
    Good gentlemen, give him a further edge
    Good Gertrude, set some watch over your son.-
    Good my lord, will you see the players well bestow'd? Do you
    Good night, mother.
    Good night- but go not to my uncle's bed.
    Grapple them unto thy soul with hoops of steel;
    Grating so harshly all his days of quiet
    grave-making?
    great buyer of land, with his statutes, his recognizances, his
    great showing. Indeed, to speak feelingly of him, he is the card
    grieve; the censure of the which one must in your allowance
    Grop'd I to find out them; had my desire,
    Grows wide withal. Perhaps he loves you now,  
    guilty of his own death shortens not his own life.  
    Had he been vanquisher, as, by the same comart
    Had he the motive and the cue for passion
    Had I but time (as this fell sergeant, Death,
    Had it th' ability of life to thank you.
    Had left the flushing in her galled eyes,
    Had made his course t' illume that part of heaven
    Had witchcraft in't. He grew unto his seat,
    half a year. But, by'r Lady, he must build churches then; or else
    Hamlet comes back. What would you undertake
    Hamlet in madness hath Polonius slain,
    Hamlet is of the faction that is wrong'd;
    Hamlet the Dane.                    [Leaps in after Laertes.
    Haply the seas, and countries different,
    Hast ta'en with equal thanks; and blest are those
    hath borne me on his back a thousand tunes. And now how abhorred
    Hath given me this. Now gather, and surmise.
    Hath in the skirts of Norway, here and there,
    Hath op'd his ponderous and marble jaws
    Hath scald thee for herself. For thou hast been
    hath sent me to you.
    Hath turn'd itself on me. Lo, here I lie,
    Have burst their cerements; why the sepulchre
    Have by the very cunning of the scene
    have grey beards; that their faces are wrinkled; their eyes
    Have heaven and earth together demonstrated
    have not craft enough to colour. I know the good King and Queen
    have not the skill.
    Have of your audience been most free and bounteous.
    have seen play, and heard others praise, and that highly (not to
    have sent for you.
    have tribute of me; the adventurous knight shall use his foil and
    Have we, as 'twere with a defeated joy,
    Have you so slander any moment leisure
    Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes
    Hazard so near us as doth hourly grow
    He answers:
    He closes thus: 'I know the gentleman.
    He closes with you in this consequence:
    He falls to such perusal of my face
    he has laid a great wager on your head. Sir, this is the matter-
    He hath not fail'd to pester us with message
    he knew me not at first. He said I was a fishmonger. He is far
    He likewise gives a frock or livery,
    He may approve our eyes and speak to it.
    He may not, as unvalued persons do,
    He never gave commandment for their death.
    He rais'd a sigh so piteous and profound
    He seem'd to find his way without his eyes,
    He should the bearers put to sudden death,
    He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice.
    He swore had neither motion, guard, nor eye,
    He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found
    He that hath kill'd my king, and whor'd my mother;
    He took my father grossly, full of bread,
    He's for a jig or a tale of bawdry, or he sleeps. Say on; come to
    He's lov'd of the distracted multitude,
    he.
    hear? Let them be well us'd; for they are the abstract and brief
    heavily with my disposition that this goodly frame, the earth,
    Hecuba.
    help to hasten them?
    Help, help, ho!
    Her brother is in secret come from France;
    Her father and myself (lawful espials)
    Her maiden strewments, and the bringing home
    Her mood will needs be pitied.
    Here in the cheer and comfort of our eye,
    Here in the lobby.
    Here is your husband, like a mildew'd ear
    Here was a gentleman of Normandy.
    Here's to thy health.
    Here's yet some liquor left.
    Here, as before, never, so help you mercy,
    Here, Hamlet, take my napkin, rub thy brows.  
    heroes the beggars' shadows. Shall we to th' court? for, by my
    High on a stage be placed to the view;
    him about the sconce with a dirty shovel, and will not tell him
    him and drown him, he drowns not himself. Argal, he that is not
    him and he her. She kneels, and makes show of protestation
    him and my daughter.- My honourable lord, I will most humbly take
    him asleep, leaves him. Anon comes in a fellow, takes off his
    Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads
    himself; there are no tongues else for's turn.
    His access to me.
    his authorities. But such officers do the King best service in
    His canon 'gainst self-slaughter! O God! God!
    His father's death and our o'erhasty marriage.
    His fell to Hamlet. Now, sir, young Fortinbras,
    his fines, and the recovery of his recoveries, to have his fine
    His form and cause conjoin'd, preaching to stones,
    His further gait herein, in that the levies,
    His greatness weigh'd, his will is not his own;
    his kibe.- How long hast thou been a grave-maker?
    His liberty is full of threats to all-
    his love.
    His madness is poor Hamlet's enemy.
    His means of death, his obscure funeral-
    His nephew's levies; which to him appear'd
    his purchases, and double ones too, than the length and breadth
    his replies are! a happiness that often madness hits on, which
    His silence will sit drooping.
    his wife, Baptista. You shall see anon. 'Tis a knavish piece of
    history, pastoral, pastoral-comical, historical-pastoral,
    hither?
    Hoist with his own petar; and 't shall go hard
    Hold it a fashion, and a toy in blood;
    hold up Adam's profession.
    Hold you the watch to-night?
    Holding a weak supposal of our worth,
    holds it no sin to tarre them to controversy. There was, for a
    Holds such an enmity with blood of man
    honesty from what it is to a bawd than the force of honesty can
    honour and dignity. The less they deserve, the more merit is in
    Horatio!- or I do forget myself.
    Horatio. A fellow of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy. He
    How all occasions do inform against me
    How dangerous is it that this man goes loose!
    How does my good Lord Hamlet?
    How does your honour for this many a day?
    How dost thou, good lord?' This might be my Lord Such-a-one, that
    How in my words somever she be shent,
    How much I had to do to calm his rage I
    How now O What hath befall'n?
    How now, my lord? Will the King hear this piece of work?
    How now, Ophelia? What's the matter?
    How now, sweet queen?
    How now? What news?
    How smart a lash that speech doth give my conscience!
    How strange or odd soe'er I bear myself
    how the wheel becomes it! It is the false steward, that stole his
    How these things came about. So shall You hear
    How to forget that learning; but, sir, now  
    How weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable
    Howe'er my haps, my joys were ne'er begun.             Exit.
    humanity so abominably.
    Hunts not the trail of policy so sure
    Hyperion to a satyr; so loving to my mother
    Hyperion's curls; the front of Jove himself;
    I am afeard You make a wanton of me.
    I am dead, Horatio. Wretched queen, adieu!
    I am justly kill'd with mine own treachery.
    I am more an antique Roman than a Dane.
    I am sorry that with better heed and judgment
    I am very proud, revengeful, ambitious; with more offences at my
    I be so able as now.
    I bought an unction of a mountebank,
    I can no more. The King, the King's to blame.  
    I cannot dream of. I entreat you both
    I cannot live to hear the news from England,
    I chiefly lov'd. 'Twas AEneas' tale to Dido, and thereabout of it
    I could a tale unfold whose lightest word
    I could not but by her. The other motive
    I dare damnation. To this point I stand,
    I did repel his letters and denied
    I do beseech you give him leave to go.
    I do not know from what part of the world
    I do not set my life at a pin's fee;
    I do receive your offer'd love like love,
    I do repent; but heaven hath pleas'd it so,
    I doubt some foul play. Would the night were come!
    I ha't!
    I had forgot! 'Tis so concluded on.
    I had my father's signet in my purse,
    I had not quoted him. I fear'd he did but trifle
    I have a daughter (have while she is mine),
    I have a speech of fire, that fain would blaze
    I have a voice and precedent of peace
    I have in quick determination
    I have seen myself, and serv'd against, the French,
    I have some rights of memory in this kingdom
    I have sworn't.
    I have taken note of it, the age is grown so picked that the toe  
    I hold it fit that we shake hands and part;
    I hold my duty as I hold my soul,
    I hop'd thou shouldst have been my Hamlet's wife;
    I know my course. The spirit that I have seen
    I lov'd you ever. But it is no matter.
    I lov'd your father, and we love ourself,
    I made to her in marriage, and to decline
    I must be cruel, only to be kind;
    I never gave you aught.
    I once did hold it, as our statists do,
    I pray thee stay with us, go not to Wittenberg.
    I pray you go with me.
    I pray you, now receive them.
    I prithee take thy fingers from my throat;
    I prithee, when thou seest that act afoot,
    I saw him yesterday, or t'other day,
    I say, away!- Go on. I'll follow thee.
    I shall not look upon his like again.
    I should be greeted, if not from Lord Hamlet.
    I should have fatted all the region kites
    I stand aloof, and will no reconcilement
    I stand in pause where I shall first begin,
    I stay too long. But here my father comes.
    I think it was to see my mother's wedding.
    I thought thy bride-bed to have deck'd, sweet maid,
    I took thee for thy better. Take thy fortune.
    I will be brief. Your noble son is mad.
    I will bestow him, and will answer well
    I will requite your loves. So, fare you well.
    I will speak daggers to her, but use none.
    I will win for him if I can; if not, I will gain nothing but my
    I would know that.
    I would not, in plain terms, from this time forth
    I your commission will forthwith dispatch,
    i' th' university, you say?
    I'll blessing beg of you.- For this same lord,  
    I'll board him presently. O, give me leave.
    I'll call upon you ere you go to bed
    I'll cross it, though it blast me.- Stay illusion!
    I'll do't. Dost thou come here to whine?
    I'll lug the guts into the neighbour room.-
    I'll rant as well as thou.
    I'll speak to it, though hell itself should gape
    I'll tent him to the quick. If he but blench,
    I'll visit you.
    I'll wipe away all trivial fond records,
    I, his sole son, do this same villain send
    If aught of woe or wonder, cease your search.
    If by direct or by collateral hand
    If circumstances lead me, I will find
    If damned custom have not braz'd it so
    If Hamlet from himself be taken away,
    If Hamlet give the first or second hit,
    If he by chance escape your venom'd stuck,
    If he steal aught the whilst this play is playing,
    If his chief good and market of his time
    If his fitness speaks, mine is ready; now or whensoever, provided
    If I had play'd the desk or table book,
    If it be made of penetrable stuff;
    If it be so- as so 'tis put on me,
    If it shall please you to make me a wholesome answer, I will do
    If one could match you. The scrimers of their nation
    If she unmask her beauty to the moon.
    if that his Majesty would aught with us,
    If there be any good thing to be done,
    If this did blast in proof. Soft! let me see.
    If thou art privy to thy country's fate,
    If thou canst mutine in a matron's bones,
    If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart,
    If thou didst ever thy dear father love-
    If thou hast any sound, or use of voice,
    If with too credent ear you list his songs,
    If you desire to know the certainty
    If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus,
    If you have hitherto conceal'd this sight,
    If you oppos'd them. Sir, this report of his  
    if your lordship would vouchsafe the answer.
    If't be th' affliction of his love, or no,
    image of a murther done in Vienna. Gonzago is the duke's name;
    imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander till he find it
    Imperious Caesar, dead and turn'd to clay,
    Importing Denmark's health, and England's too,
    Importing health and graveness. Two months since
    Importing the surrender of those lands
    In censure of his seeming.
    In Denmark's crown have worn. Give me the cups;
    In dreadful secrecy impart they did,
    In ear and ear. O my dear Gertrude, this,
    In equal scale weighing delight and dole,
    In filial obligation for some term
    In further evil?
    In going back to school in Wittenberg,
    In his true nature, and we ourselves compell'd,
    In honourable fashion.
    In hugger-mugger to inter him; Poor Ophelia
    In my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart,
    in my imagination it is! My gorge rises at it. Here hung those
    In noise so rude against me?
    In obstinate condolement is a course
    In the corrupted currents of this world
    In the dead vast and middle of the night
    In the most high and palmy state of Rome,
    In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed,
    In thee there is not half an hour of life.
    In thews and bulk; but as this temple waxes,
    In this distracted globe. Remember thee?
    In which the majesty of buried Denmark
    Indeed would make one think there might be thought,
    individable, or poem unlimited. Seneca cannot be too heavy, nor
    Infects unseen. Confess yourself to heaven;
    innovation.
    inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of it. I loved you
    insert in't, could you not?
    into a toil?
    Into a tow'ring passion.
    into England.
    Into the chapel. I pray you haste in this.
    Into the madness wherein now he raves,
    Is apoplex'd; for madness would not err,
    Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose.
    is but variable service- two dishes, but to one table. That's the
    Is by a forged process of my death
    Is death of fathers, and who still hath cried,
    Is it not monstrous that this player here,
    Is not more ugly to the thing that helps it
    Is not this something more than fantasy?
    Is not to stir without great argument,
    Is now most still, most secret, and most grave,
    Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought,
    Is strict in his arrest) O, I could tell you-
    Is the great love the general gender bear him,
    Is the main motive of our preparations,
    Is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens
    is this quintessence of dust? Man delights not me- no, nor woman
    Is thought-sick at the act.
    Is very cunning in.
    It could not move thus.  
    It did me yeoman's service. Wilt thou know
    It fits your wisdom so far to believe it
    It had been so with us, had we been there.
    It hath the primal eldest curse upon't,
    It is 'Adieu, adieu! Remember me.'  
    It is a damned ghost that we have seen,
    It is a poison temper'd by himself.
    It is an honest ghost, that let me tell you.
    it is but a shadow's shadow.
    It is most retrograde to our desire;
    It is not, nor it cannot come to good.
    It is our trick; nature her custom holds,
    it is the breathing time of day with me. Let the foils be
    It lifted up it head and did address
    it make the unskilful laugh, cannot but make the judicious
    It may be death.
    it means, say you this:
    it not?
    It sends some precious instance of itself
    It shall as level to your judgment pierce
    It shows a will most incorrect to heaven,
    It spills itself in fearing to be spilt.
    It warms the very sickness in my heart
    It was against your Highness; whereat griev'd,
    It waves me forth again. I'll follow it.
    It waves you to a more removed ground.
    It will be laid to us, whose providence
    It will but skin and film the ulcerous place,
    it. Adieu.
    Itself to motion, like as it would speak;
    journeymen had made men, and not made them well, they imitated
    keep out water a great while; and your water is a sore decayer of
    Keeps wassail, and the swagg'ring upspring reels,
    kill'd me.
    king of infinite space, were it not that I have bad dreams.
    King, father, royal Dane. O, answer me?
    King. 'Tis deeply sworn. Sweet, leave me here awhile.
    King. Faith, I must leave thee, love, and shortly too;  
    King. Full thirty times hath Phoebus' cart gone round
    King. I do believe you think what now you speak;
    kingdom. To-morrow shall I beg leave to see your kingly eyes;
    kissing carrion- Have you a daughter?
    knave jowls it to the ground,as if 'twere Cain's jawbone, that
    know a hawk from a handsaw.
    know if your pleasure hold to play with Laertes, or that you will
    know, to divide him inventorially would dozy th' arithmetic of
    ladies. Good night, good night.                         Exit
    ladyship is nearer to heaven than when I saw you last by the
    Laertes before you fall to play.  
    laid on twelve for nine, and it would come to immediate trial
    Larded with many several sorts of reasons,
    last king Hamlet overcame Fortinbras.
    Last, and as such containing as all these,
    Lay not that flattering unction to your soul
    Leave us.
    Leave wringing of your hinds. Peace! sit you down
    leaves him. The Queen returns, finds the King dead, and makes
    Led by a delicate and tender prince,
    Lends the tongue vows. These blazes, daughter,
    Lest with this piteous action you convert
    Let all the battlements their ordnance fire;
    Let come what comes; only I'll be reveng'd
    Let Hercules himself do what he may,
    Let him go, Gertrude. Do not fear our person.  
    Let his queen mother all alone entreat him  
    Let it be tenable in your silence still;
    Let me be cruel, not unnatural;
    Let me be no assistant for a state,  
    Let me not burst in ignorance, but tell
    Let me not think on't! Frailty, thy name is woman!-
    Let my disclaiming from a purpos'd evil
    Let not the royal bed of Denmark be
    Let shame say what it will. When these are gone,
    Let the birds fly, and like the famous ape,
    Let the bloat King tempt you again to bed;
    Let us impart what we have seen to-night
    Let's do't, I pray; and I this morning know
    letters for him. Ere we were two days old at sea, a pirate of  
    life,
    light for the bore of the matter. These good fellows will bring
    Like a good child and a true gentleman.
    Like John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my cause,  
    Like Niobe, all tears- why she, even she
    Like quills upon the fretful porpentine.
    Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune and harsh;
    Like to a murd'ring piece, in many places  
    Like wonder-wounded hearers? This is I,
    lips that I have kiss'd I know not how oft. Where be your gibes
    liquor.
    little. 'Sblood, there is something in this more than natural, if
    Lives almost by his looks; and for myself,-
    Look thou character. Give thy thoughts no tongue,
    Look to't, I charge you. Come your ways.
    Look where he goes even now out at the portal!
    Look you, I'll go pray.
    Looking before and after, gave us not
    Lord Hamlet, with his doublet all unbrac'd,
    lord of beasts, and his crib shall stand at the king's mess. 'Tis
    Lord, we know what we are, but know not what we may be. God be at
    Lost by his father, with all bands of law,
    love passing well.
    lowest note to the top of my compass; and there is much music,  
    Luc. Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and time agreeing;
    lungs are tickle o' th' sere; and the lady shall say her mind
    Mad call I it; for, to define true madness,
    Mad let us grant him then. And now remains
    Madness in great ones must not unwatch'd go.         Exeunt.
    Make choice of whom your wisest friends you will,
    Make mad the guilty and appal the free,
    Make Ossa like a wart! Nay, an thou'lt mouth,
    Make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres,
    Make up my sum. What wilt thou do for her?
    make you at Elsinore?
    make you ready.
    Make you to ravel all this matter out,
    Makes mouths at the invisible event,  
    Makes us traduc'd and tax'd of other nations;
    Makes vow before his uncle never more
    Making night hideous, and we fools of nature
    man is twice a child.
    man; good. If the man go to this water and drown himself, it is,
    Marcellus?
    march. [Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz,
    Mark the encounter. If he love her not,
    Mark you,
    married already- all but one- shall live; the rest shall keep as
    master's daughter.
    May be a devil; and the devil hath power
    May do t' express his love and friending to you,
    May fit us to our shape. If this should fall,
    May give his saying deed; which is no further
    May one be pardon'd and retain th' offence?
    May sweep to my revenge.
    May violets spring! I tell thee, churlish priest,
    me mad. I say, we will have no moe marriages. Those that are
    me of such things that it were better my mother had not borne me.  
    me, whether you were sent for or no.  
    Meantime we thank you for your well-took labour.
    memory, and yet but yaw neither in respect of his quick sail.
    might it not?
    Might stop a hole to keep the wind away.
    Might, by the sovereign power you have of us,
    Millions of acres on us, till our ground,
    mind.
    Mine and my father's death come not upon thee,
    mine.
    mirth, forgone all custom of exercises; and indeed, it goes so
    monsters you make of them. To a nunnery, go; and quickly too.
    More grief to hide than hate to utter love.
    More honour'd in the breach than the observance.
    More relative than this. The play's the thing
    More than his father's death, that thus hath put him
    More than in words?
    more than their even-Christen. Come, my spade! There is no
    more, ha?
    Moreover that we much did long to see you,
    Most free in his reply.
    Most generous, and free from all contriving,
    Most holy and religious fear it is
    Most lazar-like, with vile and loathsome crust
    Most throughly for my father.
    Most welcome home!                       Exeunt Ambassadors.
    Mother, good night.- Indeed, this counsellor
    much approve me. Well, sir?  
    Much heat and him. I'll silence me even here.
    Must (like a whore) unpack my heart with words
    Must give us pause. There's the respect
    Must I remember? Why, she would hang on him
    Must render up myself.
    musty.
    My brother shall know of it; and so I thank you for your good
    My crown, mine own ambition, and my queen.
    My custom always of the afternoon,
    My father's brother, but no more like my father
    My father's spirit- in arms? All is not well.
    My father, in his habit as he liv'd!
    My father- methinks I see my father.
    My fault is past. But, O, what form of prayer
    My good friends, I'll leave you till night. You are welcome to
    My head should be struck off.
    my leave of you.
    My liege, and madam, to expostulate
    My lord, not I.
    my mother. Therefore no more, but to the matter! My mother, you  
    My news shall be the fruit to that great feast.
    My pulse as yours doth temperately keep time
    My sea-gown scarf'd about me, in the dark
    My soul is full of discord and dismay.
    My stern effects. Then what I have to do
    My stronger guilt defeats my strong intent,
    My tables! Meet it is I set it down
    My thoughts and wishes bend again toward France
    My thoughts be bloody, or be nothing worth!            Exit.
    My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites-
    My too much changed son.- Go, some of you,
    My uncle?
    My virtue or my plague, be it either which,-
    Nature is fine in love, and where 'tis fine,
    nature: for anything so overdone is from the purpose of playing,  
    Nay, come, let's go together.  
    neck. He lays him down upon a bank of flowers. She, seeing
    needs marry, marry a fool; for wise men know well enough what
    Neither a borrower nor a lender be;
    neither, though by your smiling you seem to say so.
    Never to rise again. Thy mother's poison'd.
    Never to speak of this that you have heard:
    New lighted on a heaven-kissing hill:
    newly come to court Laertes; believe me, an absolute gentleman,
    Next, Your son gone, and he most violent author
    No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm,
    No hat upon his head, his stockings foul'd,
    No jocund health that Denmark drinks to-day
    No medicine in the world can do thee good.
    No more to undertake it, I will work him
    No more, sweet Hamlet!
    No more.
    No more; and by a sleep to say we end
    No noble rite nor formal ostentation,-
    No reckoning made, but sent to my account
    No traveller returns- puzzles the will,
    No trophy, sword, nor hatchment o'er his bones,
    No, in despite of sense and secrecy,
    No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp,
    No, nor the fruitful river in the eye,
    No, not to stay the finding of the axe,
    No.
    Nor any unproportion'd thought his act.
    Nor customary suits of solemn black,
    nor no matter in the phrase that might indict the author of
    Nor sense to ecstacy was ne'er so thrall'd
    Nor shall you do my ear that violence
    Nor the dejected havior of the visage,
    Nor thine on me!                                       Dies.
    Nor what he spake, though it lack'd form a little,
    Nor will it yield to Norway or the Pole
    Nor windy suspiration of forc'd breath,
    not honesty to have it thus set down; for you yourself, sir,
    not mend his pace with beating; and when you are ask'd this
    Not of that dye which their investments show,
    not off.
    not saw the air too much with your hand, thus, but use all
    Not shriving time allow'd.
    not so wildly from my affair.
    not the million, 'twas caviary to the general; but it was (as I
    not to come, it will be now; if it be not now, yet it will come:
    not.
    Now fear I this will give it start again;
    Now follows, that you know, young Fortinbras,
    Now for ourself and for this time of meeting.
    Now I am alone.  
    Now pile your dust upon the quick and dead
    Now see that noble and most sovereign reason,
    Now wears his crown.
    Now, out of this-
    now? your gambols? your songs? your flashes of merriment that
    nowhere but in's own house. Farewell.
    O good Horatio, what a wounded name
    O Hamlet, what a falling-off was there,
    O heart, lose not thy nature; let not ever
    O heat, dry up my brains! Tears seven times salt
    O heavens! is't possible a young maid's wits
    O heavy burthen!
    O limed soul, that, struggling to be free,
    O most pernicious woman!
    O shame! where is thy blush? Rebellious hell,
    O thou vile king,
    O villain, villain, smiling, damned villain!
    O what a rogue and peasant slave am I!
    O wicked wit and gifts, that have the power
    O wretched state! O bosom black as death!
    O'er which his melancholy sits on brood;
    O'er whom his very madness, like some ore
    O'erbears Your offices. The rabble call him lord;
    O'ermaster't as you may. And now, good friends,  
    o'erweigh a whole theatre of others. O, there be players that I
    O, ho!
    O, my offence is rank, it smells to heaven;
    O, say!
    O, speak!
    O, step between her and her fighting soul
    O, that that earth which kept the world in awe
    O, the recorders! Let me see one. To withdraw with you- why do
    O, this is counter, you false Danish dogs!
    O, this is the poison of deep grief; it springs
    O, vengeance!
    O, you must wear your rue with a difference! There's a daisy. I
    obligation of our ever-preserved love, and by what more dear a
    Observe my uncle. If his occulted guilt
    occasion of my sudden and more strange return.
    Occasion smiles upon a second leave.
    of a king?
    of a pair of indentures? The very conveyances of his lands will
    Of accidental judgments, casual slaughters;
    Of all their conference. If she find him not,
    Of bell and burial.
    Of blue Olympus.
    Of carnal, bloody and unnatural acts;
    Of crowflowers, nettles, daisies, and long purples,
    Of deaths put on by cunning and forc'd cause;
    Of each new-hatch'd, unfledg'd comrade. Beware
    Of entrance to a quarrel; but being in,
    Of general assault.  
    Of habits evil, is angel yet in this,
    Of Hamlet's transformation. So I call it,
    Of Hamlet's wildness. So shall I hope your virtues
    Of him that brought them.
    of his action of battery? Hum! This fellow might be in's time a
    Of his affection to me.
    Of his behaviour.
    Of his own just remove; the people muddied,
    Of his true state.
    Of impious stubbornness. 'Tis unmanly grief;
    Of life, of crown, of queen, at once dispatch'd;
    Of man and country-
    of mercy; but they knew what they did: I am to do a good turn for
    Of mighty opposites.
    Of mine own eyes.  
    Of my true mother.
    of our fellowship, by the consonancy of our youth, by the
    of question and are most tyrannically clapp'd fort. These are now
    of the fish that hath fed of that worm.
    of the peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier he galls
    Of the unworthiest siege.
    Of these dilated articles allow.            [Gives a paper.]
    Of thinking too precisely on th' event,-
    Of this his nephew's purpose, to suppress
    Of this post-haste and romage in the land.
    Of those effects for which I did the murther-
    Of unimproved mettle hot and full,  
    Of your dear father's death, is't writ in Your revenge
    Of your precedent lord; a vice of kings;
    Offence's gilded hand may shove by justice,
    Oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason,
    On Fortinbras. He has my dying voice.
    On Fortinbras; which he, in brief, obeys,
    On Fortune's cap we are not the very button.
    On plots and errors happen.
    On such regards of safety and allowance
    on the way, and hither are they coming to offer you service.
    on't.
    on, only got the tune of the time and outward habit of encounter-
    one flesh; and so, my mother. Come, for England!
    One scene of it comes near the circumstance,
    One word more, good lady.
    only emperor for diet. We fat all creatures else to fat us, and
    Or 'If we list to speak,' or 'There be, an if they might,'
    Or (not to crack the wind of the poor phrase,
    Or are you like the painting of a sorrow,
    or bad but thinking makes it so. To me it is a prison.
    Or but a sickly part of one true sense
    Or by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase,
    Or by some habit that too much o'erleavens
    or calendar of gentry; for you shall find in him the continent of
    Or ever I had seen that day, Horatio!
    Or for some frontier?
    Or given my heart a winking, mute and dumb,
    Or I could make a prologue to my brains,
    or if it was, not above once; for the play, I remember, pleas'd  
    Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life
    Or in th' incestuous pleasure of his bed;
    Or is it some abuse, and no such thing?  
    Or like a creature native and indued
    Or look'd upon this love with idle sight?
    Or lose your heart, or your chaste treasure open
    Or my dear Majesty your queen here, think,
    Or not at all.
    Or paddling in your neck with his damn'd fingers,
    Or pardon'd being down? Then I'll look up;
    Or quit in answer of the third exchange,
    Or rather say, the cause of this defect,
    Or such ambiguous giving out, to note
    Or that the Everlasting had not fix'd  
    Or then, or then, with such or such; and, as you say,
    Or thinking by our late dear brother's death
    Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
    Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff
    Or with a little shuffling, you may choose
    Or you deny me right. Go but apart,
    or, if 'a do not, 'tis no great matter there.
    Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son.
    Our crown, our life, and all that we call ours,
    Our hasty sending. Something have you heard
    Our indiscretion sometime serves us well
    Our purpose may hold there.- But stay, what noise,
    Our sovereign process, which imports at full,
    Our state to be disjoint and out of frame,
    Out of his lunacies.
    Out of his subject; and we here dispatch
    Out of my weakness and my melancholy,
    Out of the shot and danger of desire.
    Over his kingdom. You know the rendezvous.
    Over the nasty sty!
    own grinning? Quite chap- fall'n? Now get you to my lady's
    Pale as his shirt, his knees knocking each other,
    Passing through nature to eternity.  
    passionate action. The Poisoner with some three or four Mutes,
    pate full of fine dirt? Will his vouchers vouch him no more of
    Pays homage to us,- thou mayst not coldly set
    Perchance 'twill walk again.
    Perpend.
    philosophy could find it out.
    pick'd out of ten thousand.
    piece of work is a man! how noble in reason! how infinite in
    Pinch wanton on your cheek; call you his mouse;
    pipe? Call me what instrument you will, though you can fret me,
    Plautus too light. For the law of writ and the liberty, these are
    Play something like the murther of my father
    players do, I had as live the town crier spoke my lines. Nor do
    Pleasant and helpful to him!
    plentiful lack of wit, together with most weak hams. All which,
    pluck out the heart of my mystery; you would sound me from my
    Plucks off my beard and blows it in my face?
    plunge him into far more choler.
    pocky corses now-a-days that will scarce hold the laying in, I
    Popp'd in between th' election and my hopes;
    Possess it merely. That it should come to this!
    pound! Didst perceive?
    prais'd my Lord Such-a-one's horse when he meant to beg it- might
    Pray you be round with him.
    pray You Pass with your best violence;
    Pro. For us, and for our tragedy,
    promise-cramm'd. You cannot feed capons so.
    Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell,
    Pull'd the poor wretch from her melodious lay
    purging thick amber and plum-tree gum; and that they have a
    purpose, confess thyself-
    Pursued my life.
    put another question to thee. If thou answerest me not to the
    Put your dread pleasures more into command
    Queen. Nor earth to me give food, nor heaven light,
    Queen. O, confound the rest!
    Queen. Sleep rock thy brain,  
    Queen. So many journeys may the sun and moon
    Queen. The instances that second marriage move
    question more in particular. What have you, my good friends,
    question next, say 'a grave-maker.' The houses he makes lasts
    question of the play be then to be considered. That's villanous
    Rankly abus'd. But know, thou noble youth,
    rapiers and poniards, with their assigns, as girdle, hangers, and
    rawer breath
    read, my lord?
    reason and sanity could not so prosperously be delivered of. I
    Receiv'd his love?
    receiv'd it, and others, whose judgments in such matters cried in
    Receives rebuke from Norway, and, in fine,
    reckon my groans; but that I love thee best, O most best, believe
    remember. And there is pansies, that's for thoughts.
    Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain!
    repair hither and say you are not fit.
    Repast them with my blood.
    Repent what's past; avoid what is to come;
    reputation and profit, was better both ways.
    Requite him for your father.  
    Resembles that it was. What it should be,
    Respeaking earthly thunder. Come away.
    Revenge should have no bounds. But, good Laertes,
    Revisits thus the glimpses of the moon,
    Rhenish on my head once. This same skull, sir, was Yorick's
    Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.  
    Richer than that which four successive kings
    Rome-
    roof fretted with golden fire- why, it appeareth no other thing
    Rosencrantz! Good lads, how do ye both?
    Rough-hew them how we will-
    Roughly awake, I here proclaim was madness.
    Running it thus) you'll tender me a fool.  
    Save me and hover o'er me with your wings,
    Say, Voltemand, what from our brother Norway?
    Say, why is this? wherefore? What should we do?
    say-
    scarcely lie in this box; and must th' inheritor himself have no
    scorn her own image, and the very age and body of the time his
    See what a grace was seated on this brow;
    See you now-
    Seek for thy noble father in the dust.
    seeks her own salvation?
    Seem to me all the uses of this world!
    seems harsh and unwilling awhile, but in the end accepts
    seems to me a sterile promontory; this most excellent canopy, the
    sense.
    sequel at the heels of this mother's admiration? Impart.
    servants; for, to speak to you like an honest man, I am most
    set down with as much modesty as cunning. I remember one said
    Set your entreatments at a higher rate
    shall be the end of my business.
    shall he suffer not thinking on, with the hobby-horse, whose  
    Shall in the general censure take corruption
    shall see anon how the murtherer gets the love of Gonzago's wife.
    Shall you my son. You have me, have you not
    shame and the odd hits.
    Shards, flints, and pebbles should be thrown on her.
    Shark'd up a list of lawless resolutes,
    She married. O, most wicked speed, to post
    She should in ground unsanctified have lodg'd
    She turns to favour and to prettiness.
    She's so conjunctive to my life and soul
    shipwright, or the carpenter?
    shoes, get me a fellowship in a cry of players, sir?
    Should be as mortal as an old man's life?
    should be old as I am if, like a crab, you could go backward.  
    Should have a back or second, that might hold
    should have count'nance in this world to drown or hang themselves
    Should have kept short, restrain'd, and out of haunt
    Should patch a wall t' expel the winter's flaw!
    Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven,
    show, he'll not shame to tell you what it means.
    shows and noise. I would have such a fellow whipp'd for o'erdoing
    Shows itself pure. He weeps for what is done.
    Since frost itself as actively doth burn,
    Since my dear soul was mistress of her choice
    Since nature cannot choose his origin,-
    Since nature makes them partial, should o'erhear
    Since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red
    sing? Will they not say afterwards, if they should grow
    Singeing his pate against the burning zone,
    sinners? I am myself indifferent honest, but yet I could accuse
    sir, an eyrie of children, little eyases, that cry out on the top
    Sir, in this audience,
    sir, though I most powerfully and potently believe, yet I hold it
    sir,- it comes from th' ambassador that was bound for England- if
    Sith I have cause, and will, and strength, and means
    Sith nor th' exterior nor the inward man
    Sith you have heard, and with a knowing ear,
    Sits smiling to my heart; in grace whereof,
    skull, the King's jester.
    slow of sail, we put on a compelled valour, and in the grapple I
    So bloodily hast struck.
    So by his father lost; and this, I take it,
    So crimeful and so capital in nature,
    So excellent a king, that was to this
    So fast they follow. Your sister's drown'd, Laertes.
    So frown'd he once when, in an angry parle,
    So full of artless jealousy is guilt
    So grace and mercy at your most need help you,
    So hallow'd and so gracious is the time.
    So horridly to shake our disposition
    So levied as before, against the Polack;
    So lust, though to a radiant angel link'd,
    So mortal that, but dip a knife in it,
    So much as from occasion you may glean,  
    So much from th' understanding of himself,
    So nightly toils the subject of the land,
    So oft it chances in particular men
    So tell him, with th' occurrents, more and less,
    So to seduce!- won to his shameful lust
    So you will not o'errule me to a peace.
    So, by my former lecture and advice,
    So, proceed you.
    So, uncle, there you are. Now to my word:
    so. Three of the carriages, in faith, are very dear to fancy,
    Soil our addition; and indeed it takes
    Some little time; so by your companies
    Some say that ever, 'gainst that season comes
    soul to hear a robustious periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to
    souls, it touches us not. Let the gall'd jade winch; our withers
    Sound a flourish. [Enter Trumpets and Kettledrums. Danish
    speak it profanely), that, neither having the accent of
    Speak loudly for him.
    speak no more than is set down for them. For there be of them
    Speak of it! Stay, and speak!- Stop it, Marcellus!
    Speak to her, Hamlet.
    Speak to me.
    Speak to me.  
    Speak, man.
    speak. 'Sblood, do you think I am easier to be play'd on than a
    spectators to laugh too, though in the mean time some necessary
    speech of some dozen or sixteen lines which I would set down and
    spent.
    Sprinkle cool patience! Whereon do you look?
    Sprung from neglected love.- How now, Ophelia?
    Spurns enviously at straws; speaks things in doubt,
    Stand dumb and speak not to him. This to me
    Start up and stand an end. O gentle son,
    Stew'd in corruption, honeying and making love
    Stick fiery off indeed.
    Still am I call'd. Unhand me, gentlemen.
    Stood challenger on mount of all the age
    stopping a bunghole?
    strumpet. What news ?
    strutted and bellowed that I have thought some of Nature's
    Subscrib'd it, gave't th' impression, plac'd it safely,
    Such as it is; and for my own poor part,
    Such dear concernings hide? Who would do so?  
    Such was the very armour he had on
    suit of sables. O heavens! die two months ago, and not forgotten
    Sure he that made us with such large discourse,
    Swear by my sword.
    Swear by my sword.
    Swear.
    sweet, and by very much more handsome than fine. One speech in't
    T' assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps
    T' have seen what I have seen, see what I see!
    T' o'ertop old Pelion or the skyish head
    Taint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive
    Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment.
    Take it to heart? Fie! 'tis a fault to heaven,
    take longer time.
    Take these again; for to the noble mind
    Take up the bodies. Such a sight as this
    Take you, as 'twere, some distant knowledge of him;
    Taken to wife; nor have we herein barr'd
    target; the lover shall not sigh gratis; the humorous man shall
    taste of your quality. Come, a passionate speech.
    tatters, to very rags, to split the cars of the groundlings, who
    Tears in his eyes, distraction in's aspect,
    Tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear with,
    Tell him that by his license Fortinbras
    tell how. But, my lord, his Majesty bade me signify to you that
    tell me one thing.
    tell you must show fairly outwards) should more appear like
    temperance that may give it smoothness. O, it offends me to the
    tenants.
    Termagant. It out-herods Herod. Pray you avoid it.
    Th' associates tend, and everything is bent
    Th' effect of what I wrote?
    Th' expectancy and rose of the fair state,
    Th' extravagant and erring spirit hies
    Th' imperial jointress to this warlike state,
    Th' important acting of your dread command?
    Th' observ'd of all observers- quite, quite down!
    Th' oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,
    Than a command to parley. For Lord Hamlet,
    Than are dreamt of in your philosophy.
    Than fly to others that we know not of?
    Than I to Hercules. Within a month,
    Than is my deed to my most painted word.
    Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father.
    Than may be given you. In few, Ophelia,
    Than that which dearest father bears his son
    Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal.
    Than to entreaty.
    Than Young Laertes, in a riotous head,
    Than your particular demands will touch it.
    That aptly is put on. Refrain to-night,
    That are but mutes or audience to this act,
    That are so fortified against our story,
    That beetles o'er his base into the sea,
    That blurs the grace and blush of modesty;
    That both the world, I give to negligence,
    That cannot be; since I am still possess'd
    That capability and godlike reason
    That carry but half sense. Her speech is nothing,
    That does afflict our natures. I am sorry.
    That else leans on th' affair. Pray you make haste.
    That ever I was born to set it right!
    That father lost, lost his, and the survivor bound
    That flesh is heir to. 'Tis a consummation  
    That for a fantasy and trick of fame
    That from a shelf the precious diadem stole
    That great baby you see there is not yet out of his swaddling
    That grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature
    That guilty creatures, sitting at a play,
    That has no relish of salvation in't-
    That hath a stomach in't; which is no other,
    That hath in it no profit but the name.
    That have a father klll'd, a mother stain'd,
    That he could nothing do but wish and beg
    That he cried out 'twould be a sight indeed
    That he is mad, 'tis true: 'tis true 'tis pity;
    That he is open to incontinency.
    That he might not beteem the winds of heaven
    That he should weep for her? What would he do,
    That he which hath your noble father slain
    That he, as 'twere by accident, may here
    That hurts by easing. But to the quick o' th' ulcer!
    That I am guiltless of your father's death,
    That I essentially am not in madness,
    That I have longed long to re-deliver.
    That I have Positively said ''Tis so,'
    That I have shot my arrow o'er the house
    That I have utt'red. Bring me to the test,
    That I have? He would drown the stage with tears
    That I might be the organ.
    That I must be their scourge and minister.
    That I must call't in question.
    That I shall live and tell him to his teeth,
    That I will speak to thee. I'll call thee Hamlet,
    That I, in forgery of shapes and tricks,
    That I, the son of a dear father murther'd,
    That inward breaks, and shows no cause without
    That is not passion's slave, and I will wear him
    That it is proof and bulwark against sense.
    That it might please you to give quiet pass
    That it went hand in hand even with the vow
    That liberal shepherds give a grosser name,
    That live and feed upon your Majesty.
    That looks so many fadoms to the sea
    That makes calamity of so long life.
    That may to thee do ease, and, race to me,
    That might your nature, honour, and exception
    That monster, custom, who all sense doth eat
    That no revenue hast but thy good spirits
    That not your trespass but my madness speaks.
    That one may smile, and smile, and be a villain;
    That patient merit of th' unworthy takes,
    That roars so loud and thunders in the index?
    That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead.
    That rots itself in ease on Lethe wharf,
    That shall not be my offer, not thy asking?
    That she should lock herself from his resort,
    That show of such an exercise may colour
    That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream.
    That so his sickness, age, and impotence
    That spirit upon whose weal depends and rests
    That suck'd the honey of his music vows,
    That swift as quicksilverr it courses through
    That swoopstake you will draw both friend and foe,
    That they are not a pipe for Fortune's finger
    That they do know my son, come you more nearer
    That they may seem the taints of liberty,
    That thou so many princes at a shot
    That thou, dead corse, again in complete steel,
    That thus hath cozen'd you at hoodman-blind?
    That thus he suffers for.
    That thy rebellion looks so giantlike?
    That to Laertes I forgot myself,
    That to the use of actions fair and good
    That treason can but peep to what it would,
    That unmatch'd form and feature of blown youth
    That was and is the question of these wars.
    That we are made of stuff so flat and dull
    That we can let our beard be shook with danger,
    That we find out the cause of this effect-
    That we with wisest sorrow think on him
    that will themselves laugh, to set on some quantity of barren
    That would not let me sleep. Methought I lay
    That you do bend your eye on vacancy,
    That you have ta'en these tenders for true pay,
    That you know aught of me- this is not to do,
    That you vouchsafe your rest here in our court
    That you, at such times seeing me, never shall,
    That your good beauties be the happy cause
    That youth and observation copied there,
    That's an ill phrase, a vile phrase; 'beautified' is a vile
    That's not my meaning. But breathe his faults so quaintly
    That, as the star moves not but in his sphere,  
    That, being of so young clays brought up with him,
    That, for some vicious mole of nature in them,
    That, from her working, all his visage wann'd,
    That, if again this apparition come,
    That, laps'd in time and passion, lets go by
    That, on the supervise, no leisure bated,
    That, on the view and knowing of these contents,
    That, open'd, lies within our remedy.
    Thaw, and resolve itself into a dew!
    the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.
    The apparition comes. I knew your father.
    The bark is ready and the wind at help,
    The bell then beating one-
    The better to beguile. This is for all:
    The bird of dawning singeth all night long;
    The canker galls the infants of the spring
    The cannons to the heavens, the heaven to earth,
    The cat will mew, and dog will have his day.
    The changeling never known. Now, the next day  
    The chariest maid is prodigal enough
    The cock, that is the trumpet to the morn,
    The corse they follow did with desp'rate hand
    The counterfeit presentment of two brothers.
    The courtier's, scholar's, soldier's, eye, tongue, sword,
    The crowner hath sate on her, and finds it Christian burial.
    the dead, not for the quick; therefore thou liest.
    The death I gave him. So again, good night.
    The Devil himself.
    the doctor; for me to put him to his purgation would perhaps
    The drink, the drink! I am poison'd.                 [Dies.]
    The ears are senseless that should give us bearing
    the end. He keeps them, like an ape, in the corner of his jaw;
    The fair Ophelia!- Nymph, in thy orisons
    the fall of a sparrow. If it be now, 'tis not to come', if it be
    the fashion, and so berattle the common stages (so they call
    The first row of the pious chanson will show you more; for look
    The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind,
    The form of plausive manners, that these men
    The Frenchman gave you; bring you in fine together
    The glass of fashion and the mould of form,
    The glowworm shows the matin to be near
    The graves stood tenantless, and the sheeted dead
    the guts of a beggar.
    The hand more instrumental to the mouth,
    The harlot's cheek, beautied with plast'ring art,
    The head and source of all your son's distemper.
    The head is not more native to the heart,
    The hearers to collection; they aim at it,
    The heartache, and the thousand natural shocks
    The heyday in the blood is tame, it's humble,
    The imminent death of twenty thousand men
    The insolence of office, and the spurns
    The inward service of the mind and soul
    The kettledrum and trumpet thus bray out
    The King is a thing-
    The King shall drink to Hamlet's better breath,
    the King.
    The leperous distilment; whose effect
    The light and careless livery that it wears
    The lists, and full proportions are all made
    The lives of many. The cesse of majesty
    The memory be green, and that it us befitted
    The natural gates and alleys of the body,
    The need we have to use you did provoke
    The nights are wholesome, then no planets strike,
    The ocean, overpeering of his list,
    the only men.
    The origin and commencement of his grief
    The pangs of despis'd love, the law's delay,
    The perfume and suppliance of a minute;
    The pith and marrow of our attribute.
    the players ready.
    the point: if I drown myself wittingly, it argues an act; and an
    The portraiture of his. I'll court his favours.
    The potent poison quite o'ercrows my spirit.
    The present death of Hamlet. Do it, England;  
    the puppets dallying.
    The Queen carouses to thy fortune, Hamlet.
    The Queen, the courtiers. Who is this they follow?
    The rather, if you could devise it so
    The ratifiers and props of every word,
    the readiness is all. Since no man knows aught of what he leaves,
    The rivals of my watch, bid them make haste.
    The safety and health of this whole state,
    The Scripture says Adam digg'd. Could he dig without arms? I'll
    The serpent that did sting thy father's life
    The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune
    The soldiers' music and the rites of war
    The soul of Nero enter this firm bosom.
    The source of this our watch, and the chief head
    The speech, of vantage. Fare you well, my liege.
    the stair, into the lobby.
    The story is extant, and written in very choice Italian. You
    The sun no sooner shall the mountains touch
    The terms of our estate may not endure
    The thin and wholesome blood. So did it mine;
    The time is out of joint. O cursed spite
    the top of mine) an excellent play, well digested in the scenes,
    The treacherous instrument is in thy hand,
    The triumph of his pledge.
    The trumpet to the cannoneer without,  
    The undiscover'd country, from whose bourn
    The unseen good old man.
    The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy.
    The very faculties of eyes and ears.
    The very place puts toys of desperation,
    The very soul, and sweet religion makes
    The virtue of his will; but you must fear,
    The will of my most seeming-virtuous queen.
    The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail,
    The woman will be out. Adieu, my lord.
    The youth you breathe of guilty, be assur'd
    thee where I am. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern hold their course
    Their grand commission; where I found, Horatio
    Their virtues else- be they as pure as grace,
    them shape, or time to act them in. What should such fellows as I
    them to their trial-the bubbles are out,
    them) that many wearing rapiers are afraid of goosequills and
    them. Let the King have the letters I have sent, and repair thou
    themselves to common players (as it is most like, if their means
    Then goes he to the length of all his arm,
    Then Hamlet does it not, Hamlet denies it.
    Then trip him, that his heels may kick at heaven,
    Then weigh what loss your honour may sustain
    Then, venom, to thy work.                    Hurts the King.
    Thence to a lightness, and, by this declension,
    Thence to a watch, thence into a weakness,
    There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
    There falling out at tennis'; or perchance,
    there is a kind of confession in your looks, which your modesties
    There is a play to-night before the King.
    There is no shuffling; there the action lies
    There lives within the very flame of love
    There on the pendant boughs her coronet weeds
    There was 'a gaming; there o'ertook in's rouse;
    there were no sallets in the lines to make the matter savoury,
    There with fantastic garlands did she come
    There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
    There's such divinity doth hedge a king
    There's tricks i' th' world, and hems, and beats her heart;
    There, my lord.
    there, seek him i' th' other place yourself. But indeed, if you
    Therefore I have entreated him along,  
    Therefore let's follow.
    Therefore our sometime sister, now our queen,
    Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit,
    Thereto prick'd on by a most emulate pride,
    These but the trappings and the suits of woe.
    These hands are not more like.
    These words like daggers enter in mine ears.
    They are not near my conscience; their defeat
    they are. To a nunnery, go.                            Exit.
    They bear the mandate; they must sweep my way
    They clip us drunkards and with swinish phrase
    They cry 'Choose we! Laertes shall be king!'
    They find us touch'd, we will our kingdom give,
    They had begun the play. I sat me down;
    They have proclaim'd their malefactions;
    They shall go far with little.  
    They were given me by Claudio; he receiv'd them
    they'll tell all.
    they?
    Thick and and unwholesome in their thoughts and whispers
    Thin settled age his sables and his weeds,
    think how ill all's here about my heart. But it is no matter.
    thirty years.
    This above all- to thine own self be true,
    This bodes some strange eruption to our state.
    This bodiless creation ecstasy
    This gentle and unforc'd accord of Hamlet
    This grave shall have a living monument.
    This heavy-headed revel east and west
    This is but scratch'd withal. I'll touch my point
    This is one Lucianus, nephew to the King.
    This is th' imposthume of much wealth and peace,
    This is the very ecstasy of love,
    This mad young man. But so much was our love
    This man shall set me packing.
    This marvel to you.
    This must be known; which, being kept close, might move
    This must not be.' And then I prescripts gave her,
    This night to play before him.
    This physic but prolongs thy sickly days.              Exit.
    This presence knows,
    This present object made probation.
    This something-settled matter in his heart,
    this special observance, that you o'erstep not the modesty of
    This spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him.
    This sudden sending him away must seem
    This to your Majesty; this to the Queen.
    This unprevailing woe, and think of us
    This warlike volley.
    This was your husband. Look you now what follows.
    this, give these fellows some means to the King. They have
    This, in obedience, hath my daughter shown me;
    Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
    those that would make mows at him while my father lived give
    Thou canst not then be false to any man.
    Thou com'st in such a questionable shape
    thou dost ill to say the gallows is built stronger than the
    Thou find'st to be too busy is some danger.
    Thou know'st 'tis common. All that lives must die,
    Thou know'st already.
    Thou liv'st; report me and my cause aright  
    Thou turn'st mine eyes into my very soul,
    Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell!
    Though all the earth o'erwhelm them, to men's eyes.
    Though inclination be as sharp as will.
    Though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven,
    Though nothing sure, yet much unhappily.
    through the most fann'd and winnowed opinions; and do but blow
    Through your dominions for this enterprise,
    Thrown out his angle for my Proper life,
    Thus bad begins, and worse remains behind.
    Thus conscience does make cowards of us all,  
    Thus it remains, and the remainder thus.
    Thus much the business is: we have here writ
    Thus set it down: he shall with speed to England
    Thus was I, sleeping, by a brother's hand
    thy damnable faces, and begin! Come, the croaking raven doth
    Thy knotted and combined locks to part,
    Till by some elder masters of known honour
    till doomsday. Go, get thee to Yaughan; fetch me a stoup of
    Till I have caught her once more in mine arms.
    Till of this flat a mountain you have made
    Till our scale turn the beam. O rose of May!
    Till that her garments, heavy with their drink,
    Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature
    Till the last trumpet. For charitable prayers,
    Till then in patience our proceeding be.
    Till then sit still, my soul. Foul deeds will rise,
    Time qualifies the spark and fire of it.
    To all that fortune, death, and danger dare,
    To any pastime?
    To be a preparation 'gainst the Polack,  
    To be commanded.
    To be contracted in one brow of woe,
    To be forestalled ere we come to fall,  
    To bear our hearts in grief, and our whole kingdom
    To both your honours.
    To business with the King, more than the scope
    To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions
    To cast thee up again. What may this mean  
    To do obsequious sorrow. But to persever  
    To do't. Examples gross as earth exhort me.
    To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather
    To ears of flesh and blood. List, list, O, list!
    To England send him; or confine him where
    To exploit now ripe in my device,
    To feed and clothe thee? Why should the poor be flatter'd?
    To flaming youth let virtue be as wax
    To fust in us unus'd. Now, whether it be
    To give in evidence. What then? What rests?
    To give it due content.
    To give th' assay of arms against your Majesty.
    To give the world assurance of a man.
    To give them seals never, my soul, consent!             Exit.
    To give these mourning duties to your father;
    To grunt and sweat under a weary life,
    To have prov'd most royally; and for his passage
    To hear and see the matter.
    To hear him so inclin'd.
    To hear of it. They are here about the court,
    To hear the process. I'll warrant she'll tax him home;
    To heaven.
    To hell, allegiance! vows, to the blackest devil
    To hide the slain? O, from this time forth,
    To him from whom you brought them.                   Exeunt.
    To his confine; and of the truth herein
    To his unmast'red importunity.
    To keep it from divulging, let it feed
    To keep itself from noyance; but much more
    To keep my name ungor'd. But till that time
    To keep those many many bodies safe
    To lack discretion. Come, go we to the King.
    To lay our service freely at your feet,
    To let his madness range. Therefore prepare you;
    To let this canker of our nature come
    To let you know of it.
    To make it truster of your own report
    To make oppression bitter, or ere this
    To make them ranker. Forgive me this my virtue;  
    to me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours. What a
    to me with as much speed as thou wouldst fly death. I have words
    To mine own room again; making so bold  
    To muddy death.
    To my revenge. But in my terms of honour
    To Norway, uncle of young Fortinbras,
    To offer it the show of violence;
    To our most valiant brother. So much for him.
    To outface me with leaping in her grave?
    To pay five ducats, five, I would not farm it;
    To prick and sting her. Fare thee well at once.
    To punish me with this, and this with me,
    To put an antic disposition on),  
    To quit him with this arm? And is't not to be damn'd
    To reason most absurd, whose common theme
    To serve in such a difference. What devil was't
    To show his grief. Let her be round with him;
    To show my duty in your coronation,  
    To show us so much gentry and good will
    To show yourself your father's son in deed
    To sing a requiem and such rest to her
    To sleep- perchance to dream: ay, there's the rub!
    To sound what stop she please. Give me that man
    to speak in thine ear will make thee dumb; yet are they much too
    To speak of horrors- he comes before me.
    To take him in the purging of his soul,
    To tell him his commandment is fulfill'd
    To tell my story.         [March afar off, and shot within.]
    To tell the secrets of my prison house,
    To tell us this.
    To the ambassadors of England gives
    To the inheritance of Fortinbras,
    To the next abstinence; the next more easy;
    To the unsatisfied.
    To those of mine!
    To try conclusions, in the basket creep
    To wash it white as snow? Whereto serves mercy
    To what I shall unfold.
    To whom he more adheres. If it will please you
    To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things
    To you alone.
    To you in satisfaction; but if not,  
    To you yourself, to us, to every one.  
    To youth and liberty.
    Together with all forms, moods, shapes of grief,
    Together with remembrance of ourselves.
    Together with that fair and warlike form
    tongue? You will do't, sir, really.
    Too oft before their buttons be disclos'd,
    Too slightly timber'd for so loud a wind,
    top of my bent.- I will come by-and-by.
    Touching this dreaded sight, twice seen of us.
    tragedians of the city.
    tragical-historical, tragical-comical-historical-pastoral; scene  
    translate beauty into his likeness. This was sometime a paradox,
    Transports his poisoned shot- may miss our name
    Treachery! Seek it out.
    trippingly on the tongue. But if you mouth it, as many of our
    true diction of him, his semblable is his mirror, and who else
    Truly deliver.
    Try what repentance can. What can it not?
    tutor. Suit the action to the word, the word to the action; with
    Tweaks me by th' nose? gives me the lie i' th' throat
    twenty, forty, fifty, a hundred ducats apiece for his picture in
    Unbated and envenom'd. The foul practice
    uncurrent gold, be not crack'd within the ring.- Masters, you are
    Under the moon, can save the thing from death
    Under the which he shall not choose but fall;
    Ungart'red, and down-gyved to his ankle;
    Unhous'led, disappointed, unanel'd,
    Unmix'd with baser matter. Yes, by heaven!
    Unpeg the basket on the house's top,
    Unsifted in such perilous circumstance.
    Until my eyelids will no longer wag.
    unto him. He takes her up, and declines his head upon her
    Unto our climature and countrymen.
    Unto that element; but long it could not be
    Unto the voice and yielding of that body
    Unto young Hamlet; for, upon my life,
    Up, sword, and know thou a more horrid hent.
    Upon a fearful summons. I have heard
    Upon a wretch whose natural gifts were poor  
    Upon his will I seal'd my hard consent.
    Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole,
    Upon our first, he sent out to suppress
    Upon the beat and flame of thy distemper
    Upon the platform, 'twixt eleven and twelve,
    Upon the witness of these gentlemen,
    Upon whose influence Neptune's empire stands
    Upon whose property and most dear life
    valanc'd since I saw thee last. Com'st' thou to' beard me in
    very day that young Hamlet was born- he that is mad, and sent
    very liberal conceit.
    very responsive to the hilts, most delicate carriages, and of
    very warlike appointment gave us chase. Finding ourselves too
    vice to know him. He hath much land, and fertile. Let a beast be
    Videlicet, a brothel, or so forth.
    Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg-
    Virtue itself scopes not calumnious strokes.
    Visit her face too roughly. Heaven and earth!
    visitation? Come, deal justly with me. Come, come! Nay, speak.
    Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill.
    wantonness your ignorance. Go to, I'll no more on't! it hath made
    was converted) might they not stop a beer barrel?
    Was falsely borne in hand, sends out arrests
    Was gaged by our king; which had return'd
    Was not like madness. There's something in his soul
    Was our sea-fight; and what to this was sequent
    Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse.
    Was't Hamlet wrong'd Laertes? Never Hamlet.
    Was, as you know, by Fortinbras of Norway,
    waterfly?
    We cannot get from him.  
    We do it wrong, being so majestical,
    we fat ourselves for maggots. Your fat king and your lean beggar
    We go to gain a little patch of ground
    We heard it all.- My lord, do as you please;
    We may of their encounter frankly judge
    We must with all our majesty and skill
    We o'erraught on the way. Of these we told him,
    We shall express our duty in his eye;
    We should do when we would; for this 'would' changes,
    We should profane the service of the dead
    We will bestow ourselves.- [To Ophelia] Read on this book,
    We would not understand what was most fit,
    We'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings-
    We'll put on those shall praise your excellence
    We'll put the matter to the present push.-
    We'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart.
    Weigh what convenience both of time and means
    Welcome, my good friends.
    Well may it sort that this portentous figure
    Well ratified by law and heraldry,
    well.- Welcome, good friends.- O, my old friend? Why, thy face is
    went to cuffs in the question.
    Were nothing but to waste night, day, and time.
    Were thicker than itself with brother's blood,
    were wont to set the table on a roar? Not one now, to mock your
    What company, at what expense; and finding
    What does this mean, my lord?
    What feast is toward in thine eternal cell
    What forgeries you please; marry, none so rank
    What I have said to you.
    What is between you? Give me up the truth.
    What is the issue of the business there.  
    What is the matter?
    What is the reason that you use me thus?
    What is't but to be nothing else but mad?
    what is't to leave betimes? Let be.
    What majesty should be, what duty is,
    What might be toward, that this sweaty haste  
    What might you think? No, I went round to work
    what part a gentleman would see.
    What should this mean? Are all the rest come back?
    What think you on't?
    What thou hast said to me.
    What warlike noise is this?
    What we two nights have seen.
    What wouldst thou have, Laertes?
    What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba,
    What's near it with it. It is a massy wheel,
    What, have you given him any hard words of late?
    What, is Horatio there ?
    When churchyards yawn, and hell itself breathes out
    When down her weedy trophies and herself
    When he himself might his quietus make
    When he is drunk asleep; or in his rage;
    When he is fit and seasoned for his passage?  
    When he th' ambitious Norway combated.
    When honour's at the stake. How stand I then,
    When I had seen this hot love on the wing
    when I shall (first asking your pardon thereunto) recount the
    When I to sulph'rous and tormenting flames
    When in one line two crafts directly meet.  
    When in your motion you are hot and dry-  
    When it prov'd otherwise.?
    When our deep plots do pall; and that should learn us
    When sorrows come, they come not single spies.
    When that her golden couplets are disclos'd,  
    When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul
    When the compulsive ardour gives the charge,
    When thou liest howling.
    When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,
    When we would bring him on to some confession
    When yond same star that's westward from the pole
    Where be his quiddits now, his quillets, his cases, his tenures,
    Where every god did seem to set his seal
    Where is your son?
    Where it draws blood no cataplasm so rare,
    where my abridgment comes.
    Where now it burns, Marcellus and myself,
    Where should We have our thanks?
    Where thrift may follow fawning. Dost thou hear?
    Where truth is hid, though it were hid indeed
    Where we shall find him most conveniently.           Exeunt.
    Where you may see the inmost part of you.
    Where, as they had deliver'd, both in time,
    Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the King.         Exit.
    Wherein necessity, of matter beggar'd,
    Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrated,
    Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk.
    Wherein they say you shine, Your sun of parts
    Wherein we saw thee quietly inurn'd,
    Whereof he is the head. Then if he says he loves you,
    Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus
    Whereon old Norway, overcome with joy,
    Whereon the numbers cannot try the cause,
    Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer
    Whether aught to us unknown afflicts him thus
    Whether in sea or fire, in earth or air,
    Which are not sterling. Tender yourself more dearly,
    Which done, she took the fruits of my advice,
    Which happily foreknowing may avoid,
    Which have solicited- the rest is silence.             Dies.
    Which he stood seiz'd of, to the conqueror;
    Which I have told thee, of my father's death.  
    Which is not tomb enough and continent
    Which is the mightier. In his lawless fit
    Which let thy wisdom fear. Hold off thy hand!
    Which may to you, perhaps, seein much unsinew'd,
    Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason
    Which now goes too free-footed.
    Which now, to claim my vantage doth invite me.
    which this ass now o'erreaches; one that would circumvent God,
    Which time she chaunted snatches of old tunes,
    which was the model of that Danish seal;
    Which we do tender as we dearly grieve
    Which, as her winks and nods and gestures yield them,
    while, no money bid for argument unless the poet and the player
    Whiles rank corruption, mining all within,
    Whiles, like a puff'd and reckless libertine,
    Whips out his rapier, cries 'A rat, a rat!'
    whirlwind of your passion, you must acquire and beget a
    Who calls me villain? breaks my pate across?
    Who does it, then? His madness. If't be so,
    Who hath reliev'd you?
    Who in her duty and obedience, mark,
    Who is't that can inform me?
    Who like not in their judgment, but their eyes;
    Who was in life a foolish peating knave.
    Who, dipping all his faults in their affection,
    Who, impotent and bedrid, scarcely hears
    Whom I will trust as I will adders fang'd,
    Whose blood and judgment are so well commingled
    whose end, both at the first and now, was and is, to hold, as
    Whose image even but now appear'd to us,
    Whose motive in this case should stir me most
    Whose spirit, with divine ambition puff'd,
    Whose violent property fordoes itself  
    Whose whisper o'er the world's diameter,
    Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense
    Whose worth, if praises may go back again,
    Why day is day, night is night, and time is time.
    Why does the drum come hither?
    Why seems it so particular with thee?
    Why should we in our peevish opposition
    Why such impress of shipwrights, whose sore task
    Why the man dies.- I humbly thank you, sir.
    Why this same strict and most observant watch
    Why thou art thus incens'd. Let him go, Gertrude.
    Why thy canoniz'd bones, hearsed in death,
    Why to a public count I might not go
    Why yet I live to say 'This thing's to do,'
    Why you proceeded not against these feats
    Why, this is hire and salary, not revenge!
    Why, what an ass am I! This is most brave,
    Will be some danger; which for to prevent,
    Will bring him to his wonted way again,
    will he nill he, he goes- mark you that. But if the water come to
    will last you some eight year or nine year. A tanner will last
    will leave him and suddenly contrive the means of meeting between
    Will not debate the question of this straw.
    Will not peruse the foils; so that with ease,
    Will nothing stick Our person to arraign
    Will return'd shall know you are come home.
    Will sate itself in a celestial bed
    Will so bestow ourselves that, seeing unseen,
    will speak to this fellow. Whose grave's this, sirrah?
    Will want true colour- tears perchance for blood.
    Will you be rul'd by me?
    Will you do this? Keep close within your chamber.
    willingly part withal- except my life, except my life, except my
    Winner and loser?
    With a bare bodkin? Who would these fardels bear,
    With all his crimes broad blown, as flush as May;
    With all my imperfections on my head.
    With all my love I do commend me to you;
    With all the strength and armour of the mind
    With almost all the holy vows of heaven.
    With an attent ear, till I may deliver
    With an auspicious, and a dropping eye,
    With an entreaty, herein further shown,
    With arms encumb'red thus, or this head-shake,
    With fiery quickness. Therefore prepare thyself.
    With forms to his conceit? And all for nothing!
    With juice of cursed hebona in a vial,
    With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch.
    With mirth in funeral, and with dirge in marriage,
    With most miraculous organ, I'll have these Players
    With pestilent speeches of his father's death,
    With sore distraction. What I have done
    With such dexterity to incestuous sheets!
    With the brave beast. So far he topp'd my thought
    With this affair along. For all, our thanks.
    With this contagion, that, if I gall him slightly,
    With this regard their currents turn awry
    With this slave's offal. Bloody bawdy villain!
    With thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls?
    With tristful visage, as against the doom,
    With turbulent and dangerous lunacy?
    With us to watch the minutes of this night,
    With variable objects, shall expel
    With which she followed my poor father's body
    With windlasses and with assays of bias,
    With witchcraft of his wit, with traitorous gifts-
    With wondrous potency. Once more, good night;
    with you in this garb, lest my extent to the players (which I
    With, hoo! such bugs and goblins in my life-
    within 's two hours.
    Within his truncheon's length; whilst they distill'd  
    Within the book and volume of my brain,
    Within the centre.
    Without debatement further, more or less,
    Without more motive, into every brain
    Without the sensible and true avouch
    Without the which we are Pictures or mere beasts;
    Witness this army of such mass and charge,
    Woo't drink up esill? eat a crocodile?
    Woo't weep? woo't fight? woo't fast? woo't tear thyself?
    Words without thoughts never to heaven go.             Exit.
    work; but what o' that? Your Majesty, and we that have free
    world.
    Worse than the mutinies in the bilboes. Rashly-
    Would from a paddock, from a bat, a gib
    Would gambol from. Mother, for love of grace,
    would give you some violets, but they wither'd all when my father
    Would harrow up thy soul, freeze thy young blood,
    Would have mourn'd longer) married with my uncle;  
    Would have reverted to my bow again,
    Would I had met my dearest foe in heaven
    Would make them capable.- Do not look upon me,
    Would not this, sir, and a forest of feathers- if the rest of my
    would perhaps trouble a woman.
    would play upon me; you would seem to know my stops; you would
    Would quake to look on. Soft! now to my mother!
    Would step from this to this? Sense sure you have,
    would trace him, his umbrage, nothing more.
    Would, like the spring that turneth wood to stone,
    Wouldst thou not stir in this. Now, Hamlet, hear.
    Yea, curb and woo for leave to do him good.
    Yea, from the table of my memory
    Yea, this solidity and compound mass,
    Yes, faith, heartily.
    Yet have I in me something dangerous,
    Yet here she is allow'd her virgin crants,
    Yet I,
    Yet must not we put the strong law on him.
    Yet needfull too; for youth no less becomes
    Yet now I must confess, that duty done,
    Yet so far hath discretion fought with nature
    Yet the unshaped use of it doth move
    Yet what can it when one cannot repent?
    yet? Then there's hope a great man's memory may outlive his life
    You are the most immediate to our throne,
    You are the Queen, your husband's brother's wife,
    You are welcome, masters; welcome, all.- I am glad to see thee
    You cannot call it love; for at your age
    you cannot play upon me.
    You cannot speak of reason to the Dane
    You do not understand yourself so clearly
    You do remember all the circumstance?
    You from the Polack wars, and you from England,
    you go about to recover the wind of me, as if you would drive me
    You go not till I set you up a glass
    You have been talk'd of since your travel much,
    You heavenly guards! What would your gracious figure?
    you i' th' earth three-and-twenty years.
    You know the wager?
    You laying these slight sullies on my son
    You mainly were stirr'd up.
    You must not put another scandal on him,
    You must not take for fire. From this time
    You must translate; 'tis fit we understand them.
    You need not tell us what Lord Hamlet said.
    you nine year.
    you not sent for? Is it your own inclining? Is it a free
    You that look pale and tremble at this chance,
    You told us of some suit. What is't, Laertes?
    You, as your business and desires shall point you,
    You, good Cornelius, and you, Voltemand,
    Your bait of falsehood takes this carp of truth;
    Your bedded hairs, like life in excrements,
    Your better wisdoms, which have freely gone  
    your bounty. Take them in.
    your friend.
    Your Grace has laid the odds o' th' weaker side.
    Your leave and favour to return to France;
    Your loneliness.- We are oft to blame in this,
    your memory, begin at this line- let me see, let me see:
    your mother's commandment; if not, your pardon and my return
    your name be Horatio, as I am let to know it is.
    Your party in converse, him you would sound,
    Your skill shall, like a star i' th' darkest night,
    Your sudden coming o'er to play with you.
    your table!
    Your visitation shall receive such thanks
    your whoreson dead body. Here's a skull now. This skull hath lien
    Your wisdom best shall think.
    yourself and him, he shall not exceed you three hits; he hath
    Youth to itself rebels, though none else near.
   Will You walk out of the air, my lord?
   You say right, sir; a Monday morning; twas so indeed.
  1. Play. 'Anon he finds him,
  1. Play. 'But who, O who, had seen the mobled queen-'
  1. Play. 'Run barefoot up and down, threat'ning the flames
  1. Play. Ay, my lord.
  1. Play. Ay, my lord.
  1. Play. What speech, my good lord?
  A Gentleman, courtier.
  A Norwegian Captain.
  A Priest.
  All. Gentlemen!
  All. Lights, lights, lights!
  All. No, let's come in!
  All. Our duty to your honour.  
  All. Treason! treason!
  All. We will, we will!
  Ambassador. The sight is dismal;
  Ber. 'Tis here!
  Ber. 'Tis now struck twelve. Get thee to bed, Francisco.
  Ber. Have you had quiet guard?
  Ber. He.
  Ber. How now, Horatio? You tremble and look pale.
  Ber. I have seen nothing.
  Ber. I think it be no other but e'en so.
  Ber. In the same figure, like the King that's dead.  
  Ber. It was about to speak, when the cock crew.
  Ber. It would be spoke to.
  Ber. Last night of all,
  Ber. Long live the King!
  Ber. Looks it not like the King? Mark it, Horatio.
  Ber. Say-
  Ber. See, it stalks away!
  Ber. Sit down awhile,
  Ber. Welcome, Horatio. Welcome, good Marcellus.
  Ber. Well, good night.
  Ber. Who's there.?
  Bernardo, officer.
  Both [Mar. and Ber.] We do, my lord.
  Both. Arm'd, my lord.
  Both. Ay, by heaven, my lord.  
  Both. Longer, longer.
  Both. My lord, from head to foot.
  Both. My lord, we will not.
  Both. We will haste us.
  Both. We will, my lord.                       Exeunt they two.
  Both. We'll wait upon you.  
  Capt. Against some part of Poland.  
  Capt. God b' wi' you, sir.                             [Exit.]
  Capt. I will do't, my lord.
  Capt. The nephew to old Norway, Fortinbras.
  Capt. They are of Norway, sir.
  Capt. Truly to speak, and with no addition,
  Capt. Yes, it is already garrison'd.
  Claudius, King of Denmark.
  Clown. 'A was the first that ever bore arms.
  Clown. 'Tis a quick lie, sir; 'twill away again from me to you.
  Clown. 'Twill not he seen in him there. There the men are as mad as
  Clown. (Sings)
  Clown. (sings)
  Clown. A pestilence on him for a mad rogue! 'A pour'd a flagon of
  Clown. A whoreson, mad fellow's it was. Whose do you think it was?
  Clown. Ay, marry, is't- crowner's quest law.
  Clown. Ay, tell me that, and unyoke.
  Clown. Cannot you tell that? Every fool can tell that. It was the
  Clown. Cudgel thy brains no more about it, for your dull ass will
  Clown. E'en that.
  Clown. Faith, e'en with losing his wits.
  Clown. Faith, if 'a be not rotten before 'a die (as we have many
  Clown. For no man, sir.
  Clown. For none neither.
  Clown. Give me leave. Here lies the water; good. Here stands the
  Clown. How can that be, unless she drown'd herself in her own
  Clown. I like thy wit well, in good faith. The gallows does well.
  Clown. Is she to be buried in Christian burial when she wilfully
  Clown. It must be se offendendo; it cannot be else. For here lies
  Clown. Mine, sir.
  Clown. Of all the days i' th' year, I came to't that day that our
  Clown. One that was a woman, sir; but, rest her soul, she's dead.
  Clown. To't.
  Clown. Very strangely, they say.
  Clown. What is he that builds stronger than either the mason, the
  Clown. What, art a heathen? How dost thou understand the Scripture?
  Clown. Why, because 'a was mad. 'A shall recover his wits there;
  Clown. Why, here in Denmark. I have been sexton here, man and boy  
  Clown. Why, sir, his hide is so tann'd with his trade that 'a will
  Clown. Why, there thou say'st! And the more pity that great folk
  Clown. You lie out on't, sir, and therefore 'tis not yours.
  Cor., Volt. In that, and all things, will we show our duty.
  Cornelius, courtier.
  English Ambassadors.
  For. Go softly on.
  For. Go, Captain, from me greet the Danish king.
  Fort. Let four captains
  Fort. Let us haste to hear it,  
  Fort. This quarry cries on havoc. O proud Death,
  Fort. Where is this sight?
  Fortinbras, Prince of Norway.  
  Fran. Bernardo hath my place.
  Fran. Bernardo?
  Fran. For this relief much thanks. 'Tis bitter cold,
  Fran. Give you good night.
  Fran. I think I hear them. Stand, ho! Who is there?
  Fran. Nay, answer me. Stand and unfold yourself.
  Fran. Not a mouse stirring.
  Fran. You come most carefully upon your hour.
  Francisco, a soldier
  Gent. She is importunate, indeed distract.
  Gent. She speaks much of her father; says she hears
  Gentlemen. (within) Hamlet! Lord Hamlet!
  Getrude, Queen of Denmark, mother to Hamlet.
  Ghost of Hamlet's Father.
  Ghost. [beneath] Swear by his sword.
  Ghost. [beneath] Swear.
  Ghost. [beneath] Swear.
  Ghost. Ay, that incestuous, that adulterate beast,
  Ghost. Do not forget. This visitation
  Ghost. I am thy father's spirit,
  Ghost. I find thee apt;
  Ghost. If thou hast nature in thee, bear it not.
  Ghost. Mark me.
  Ghost. Murther most foul, as in the best it is;
  Ghost. My hour is almost come,
  Ghost. Pity me not, but lend thy serious hearing
  Ghost. Revenge his foul and most unnatural murther.
  Ghost. So art thou to revenge, when thou shalt hear.
  Ghost. Swear.
  Guil. A thing, my lord?
  Guil. Believe me, I cannot.
  Guil. But these cannot I command to any utt'rance of harmony. I
  Guil. But we both obey,
  Guil. But with much forcing of his disposition.
  Guil. Faith, her privates we.
  Guil. Good my lord, put your discourse into some frame, and start
  Guil. Good my lord, vouchsafe me a word with you.
  Guil. Happy in that we are not over-happy.
  Guil. Heavens make our presence and our practices
  Guil. I know, no touch of it, my lord.
  Guil. In what, my dear lord?
  Guil. Is in his retirement, marvellous distemper'd.  
  Guil. My honour'd lord!
  Guil. My lord, I cannot.
  Guil. My lord, we were sent for.
  Guil. Nay, good my lord, this courtesy is not of the right breed.
  Guil. No, my lord; rather with choler.
  Guil. Nor do we find him forward to be sounded,
  Guil. O my lord, if my duty be too bold, my love is too unmannerly.
  Guil. O, there has been much throwing about of brains.
  Guil. Prison, my lord?  
  Guil. The King, sir-
  Guil. The Queen, your mother, in most great affliction of spirit
  Guil. There are the players.
  Guil. We will ourselves provide.
  Guil. What should we say, my lord?
  Guil. What, my lord?
  Guil. Which dreams indeed are ambition; for the very substance of
  Guildenstern, courtier.
  Ham.   A whole one I!
  Ham.   Aha! Come, some music! Come, the recorders!
  Ham.   Why, let the strucken deer go weep,
  Ham. 'By-and-by' is easily said.- Leave me, friends.
  Ham. 'Swounds, show me what thou't do.
  Ham. 'The mobled queen'?
  Ham. 'The Mousetrap.' Marry, how? Tropically. This play is the
  Ham. 'Tis e'en so. The hand of little employment hath the daintier
  Ham. 'Tis very strange.
  Ham. 'Tis well. I'll have thee speak out the rest of this soon.-
  Ham. (within) Mother, mother, mother!
  Ham. [aside to Horatio] Thy state is the more gracious; for 'tis a
  Ham. [aside] A little more than kin, and less than kind!
  Ham. [aside] Nay then, I have an eye of you.- If you love me, hold
  Ham. [aside] Wormwood, wormwood!
  Ham. [comes forward] What is he whose grief  
  Ham. [draws] How now? a rat? Dead for a ducat, dead!
  Ham. A bloody deed- almost as bad, good mother,
  Ham. A dream itself is but a shadow.
  Ham. A goodly one; in which there are many confines, wards, and
  Ham. A king of shreds and patches!-
  Ham. A man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a king, and eat
  Ham. A murtherer and a villain!
  Ham. Aha boy, say'st thou so? Art thou there, truepenny?
  Ham. Alas, poor ghost!
  Ham. Am I not i' th' right, old Jephthah?
  Ham. An earnest conjuration from the King,
  Ham. And do still, by these pickers and stealers!
  Ham. And fix'd his eyes upon you?
  Ham. And smelt so? Pah!
  Ham. And therefore as a stranger give it welcome.
  Ham. Angels and ministers of grace defend us!
  Ham. Are you fair?
  Ham. Arm'd, say you?
  Ham. As th'art a man,
  Ham. As woman's love.
  Ham. At supper.
  Ham. Ay, lady, it was my word.
  Ham. Ay, madam, it is common.
  Ham. Ay, marry, is't;
  Ham. Ay, marry, why was be sent into England?
  Ham. Ay, or any show that you'll show him. Be not you asham'd to
  Ham. Ay, sir, but 'while the grass grows'- the proverb is something
  Ham. Ay, sir, what of him?
  Ham. Ay, sir. To be honest, as this world goes, is to be one man
  Ham. Ay, sir; that soaks up the King's countenance, his rewards,  
  Ham. Ay, so, God b' wi' ye!
  Ham. Ay, truly; for the power of beauty will sooner transform
  Ham. Be not too tame neither; but let your own discretion be your
  Ham. Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks; but I thank you;
  Ham. Being thus benetted round with villanies,
  Ham. Between who?
  Ham. Bid the players make haste, [Exit Polonius.] Will you two
  Ham. But soft! What noise? Who calls on Hamlet? O, here they come.
  Ham. But where was this?
  Ham. But yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for my complexion.
  Ham. Buzz, buzz!
  Ham. Come for the third, Laertes! You but dally.
  Ham. Come on, sir.
  Ham. Come, come, and sit you down. You shall not budge I
  Ham. Compounded it with dust, whereto 'tis kin.
  Ham. Denmark's a prison.
  Ham. Did you not speak to it?
  Ham. Do not believe it.
  Ham. Do the boys carry it away?  
  Ham. Do they hold the same estimation they did when I was in the
  Ham. Do you not come your tardy son to chide,
  Ham. Do you see nothing there?
  Ham. Do you see yonder cloud that's almost in shape of a camel?
  Ham. Do you think I meant country matters?
  Ham. Does it not, thinks't thee, stand me now upon-
  Ham. Dost thou think Alexander look'd o' this fashion i' th' earth?
  Ham. Ecstasy?
  Ham. Excellent well. You are a fishmonger.
  Ham. Excellent, i' faith; of the chameleon's dish. I eat the air,
  Ham. Follow him, friends. We'll hear a play to-morrow.
  Ham. For England?
  Ham. For God's love let me hear!
  Ham. For if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog, being a god  
  Ham. From top to toe?
  Ham. Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore. Your hands, come! Th'
  Ham. Get thee to a nunnery! Why wouldst thou be a breeder of
  Ham. Give me your pardon, sir. I have done you wrong;
  Ham. Go, go, you question with a wicked tongue.
  Ham. God's bodykins, man, much better! Use every man after his
  Ham. Goes it against the main of Poland, sir,
  Ham. Good madam!
  Ham. Good sir, whose powers are these?
  Ham. Good.  
  Ham. Ha, ha! Are you honest?
  Ham. Hark you, Guildenstern- and you too- at each ear a hearer!
  Ham. Has this fellow no feeling of his business, that he sings at
  Ham. Haste me to know't, that I, with wings as swift
  Ham. He did comply with his dug before he suck'd it. Thus has he,
  Ham. He poisons him i' th' garden for's estate. His name's Gonzago.  
  Ham. He that plays the king shall be welcome- his Majesty shall
  Ham. He was a man, take him for all in all.
  Ham. He will stay till you come.
  Ham. Hear you, sir!
  Ham. Heaven make thee free of it! I follow thee.
  Ham. Here's the commission; read it at more leisure.
  Ham. Here, thou incestuous, murd'rous, damned Dane,
  Ham. Hic et ubique? Then we'll shift our ground.
  Ham. Hillo, ho, ho, boy! Come, bird, come.
  Ham. His beard was grizzled- no?
  Ham. Hold off your hands!
  Ham. Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man
  Ham. How absolute the knave is! We must speak by the card, or
  Ham. How came he mad?
  Ham. How chances it they travel? Their residence, both in
  Ham. How comes it? Do they grow rusty?
  Ham. How does the Queen?
  Ham. How if I answer no?
  Ham. How is it with you, lady?
  Ham. How long is that since?
  Ham. How long will a man lie i' th' earth ere he rot?
  Ham. How purpos'd, sir, I pray you?
  Ham. How say you then? Would heart of man once think it?
  Ham. How strangely?
  Ham. I am but mad north-north-west. When the wind is southerly I
  Ham. I am constant to my purposes; they follow the King's pleasure.
  Ham. I am glad of it. A knavish speech sleeps in a foolish ear.
  Ham. I am glad to see you well.
  Ham. I am sorry they offend you, heartily;
  Ham. I am tame, sir; pronounce.
  Ham. I am very glad to see you.- [To Bernardo] Good even, sir.-  
  Ham. I beseech you remember.
  Ham. I could interpret between you and your love, if I could see
  Ham. I dare not confess that, lest I should compare with him in
  Ham. I dare not drink yet, madam; by-and-by.
  Ham. I do beseech you.
  Ham. I do not think so. Since he went into France I have been in
  Ham. I do not well understand that. Will you play upon this pipe?
  Ham. I embrace it freely,
  Ham. I have heard of your paintings too, well enough. God hath
  Ham. I heard thee speak me a speech once, but it was never acted;
  Ham. I humbly thank you, sir. [Aside to Horatio] Dost know this
  Ham. I humbly thank you; well, well, well.
  Ham. I lov'd Ophelia. Forty thousand brothers
  Ham. I mean, my head upon your lap?
  Ham. I must to England; you know that?
  Ham. I pray you.
  Ham. I prithee do not mock me, fellow student.
  Ham. I see a cherub that sees them. But come, for England!
  Ham. I shall in all my best obey you, madam.
  Ham. I think it be thine indeed, for thou liest in't.
  Ham. I will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players. Mark it.-
  Ham. I will receive it, sir, with all diligence of spirit. Put your
  Ham. I will tell you why. So shall my anticipation prevent your
  Ham. I will watch to-night.
  Ham. I will.
  Ham. I would I had been there.
  Ham. I would not hear your enemy say so,
  Ham. I would you did, sir; yet, in faith, if you did, it would not
  Ham. I'll be with you straight. Go a little before.  
  Ham. I'll be your foil, Laertes. In mine ignorance
  Ham. I'll play this bout first; set it by awhile.
  Ham. If it assume my noble father's person,
  Ham. If she should break it now!
  Ham. If thou dost marry, I'll give thee this plague for thy dowry:
  Ham. In happy time.
  Ham. In heaven. Send thither to see. If your messenger find him not
  Ham. In my mind's eye, Horatio.
  Ham. In the secret parts of Fortune? O! most true! she is a
  Ham. Indeed, indeed, sirs. But this troubles me.
  Ham. Indeed, upon my sword, indeed.
  Ham. Into my grave?
  Ham. Is not parchment made of sheepskins?
  Ham. Is this a prologue, or the posy of a ring?
  Ham. Is't possible?
  Ham. It is as easy as lying. Govern these ventages with your
  Ham. It is but foolery; but it is such a kind of gaingiving as
  Ham. It is not very strange; for my uncle is King of Denmark, and
  Ham. It shall to the barber's, with your beard.- Prithee say on.
  Ham. It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf there. Be
  Ham. It waves me still.
  Ham. It will be short; the interim is mine,
  Ham. It will not speak. Then will I follow it.
  Ham. It would cost you a groaning to take off my edge.
  Ham. Judgment!
  Ham. Lady, shall I lie in your lap?
  Ham. Let her not walk i' th' sun. Conception is a blessing, but not
  Ham. Let me see. [Takes the skull.] Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him,  
  Ham. Let the doors be shut upon him, that he may play the fool
  Ham. Look here upon th's picture, and on this,
  Ham. Madam, how like you this play?
  Ham. Make you a wholesome answer; my wit's diseas'd. But, sir, such
  Ham. Marry, this is miching malhecho; it means mischief.  
  Ham. Methinks it is like a weasel.
  Ham. Mother, you have my father much offended.
  Ham. Murther?
  Ham. My excellent good friends! How dost thou, Guildenstern? Ah,
  Ham. My fate cries out
  Ham. My lord, I have news to tell you. When Roscius was an actor in
  Ham. My mother! Father and mother is man and wife; man and wife is
  Ham. Nay come! again!                         The Queen falls.  
  Ham. Nay, but swear't.
  Ham. Nay, but to live
  Ham. Nay, do not think I flatter;
  Ham. Nay, I know not.
  Ham. Nay, I know not. Is it the King?
  Ham. Nay, that follows not.
  Ham. Never make known what you have seen to-night.
  Ham. Never to speak of this that you have seen.
  Ham. No such matter! I will not sort you with the rest of my
  Ham. No, believe me, 'tis very cold; the wind is northerly.
  Ham. No, by the rood, not so!
  Ham. No, by this bad.  
  Ham. No, faith, not a jot; but to follow him thither with modesty
  Ham. No, good mother. Here's metal more attractive.
  Ham. No, no! They do but jest, poison in jest; no offence i' th'
  Ham. No, nor mine now. [To Polonius] My lord, you play'd once
  Ham. No, not I!
  Ham. No, you will reveal it.
  Ham. Nor did you nothing hear?
  Ham. Nor the soles of her shoe?
  Ham. Not a whit, we defy augury; there's a special providence in
  Ham. Not so, my lord. I am too much i' th' sun.
  Ham. Not this, by no means, that I bid you do:
  Ham. Not where he eats, but where he is eaten. A certain
  Ham. Nothing but to show you how a king may go a progress through
  Ham. Nothing.
  Ham. Now might I do it pat, now he is praying;
  Ham. Now, mother, what's the matter?
  Ham. O all you host of heaven! O earth! What else?
  Ham. O God!
  Ham. O God, I could be bounded in a nutshell and count myself a
  Ham. O God, your only jig-maker! What should a man do but be merry?
  Ham. O good Horatio, I'll take the ghost's word for a thousand
  Ham. O Jephthah, judge of Israel, what a treasure hadst thou!
  Ham. O my prophetic soul!
  Ham. O that this too too solid flesh would melt,
  Ham. O villany! Ho! let the door be lock'd.
  Ham. O wonderful son, that can so stonish a mother! But is there no
  Ham. O, but she'll keep her word.
  Ham. O, horrible! O, horrible! most horrible!
  Ham. O, I die, Horatio!
  Ham. O, reform it altogether! And let those that play your clowns
  Ham. O, throw away the worser part of it,
  Ham. Of him, sir.
  Ham. Of nothing. Bring me to him. Hide fox, and all after.
  Ham. On him, on him! Look you how pale he glares!
  Ham. One.
  Ham. Or like a whale.
  Ham. Or of a courtier, which could say 'Good morrow, sweet lord!
  Ham. Pale or red?
  Ham. Rest, rest, perturbed spirit! So, gentlemen,
  Ham. Safely stow'd.
  Ham. Saw? who?
  Ham. Seems, madam, Nay, it is. I know not 'seems.'
  Ham. She well instructs me.
  Ham. Sir, a whole history.
  Ham. Sir, his definement suffers no perdition in you; though, I  
  Ham. Sir, I cannot.
  Ham. Sir, I lack advancement.
  Ham. Sir, I will walk here in the hall. If it please his Majesty,
  Ham. Sir, in my heart there was a kind of fighting
  Ham. Sir, my good friend- I'll change that name with you.
  Ham. Slanders, sir; for the satirical rogue says here that old men
  Ham. So be it!
  Ham. So long? Nay then, let the devil wear black, for I'll have a
  Ham. So much for this, sir; now shall you see the other.
  Ham. So you must take your husbands.- Begin, murtherer. Pox, leave
  Ham. Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounc'd it to you,
  Ham. Speak. I am bound to hear.
  Ham. Such an act
  Ham. That I can keep your counsel, and not mine own. Besides, to be
  Ham. That if you be honest and fair, your honesty should admit no
  Ham. That is Laertes,
  Ham. That skull had a tongue in it, and could sing once. How the
  Ham. That you must teach me. But let me conjure you by the rights
  Ham. That's a fair thought to lie between maids' legs.
  Ham. That's two of his weapons- but well.
  Ham. The air bites shrewdly; it is very cold.
  Ham. The body is with the King, but the King is not with the body.
  Ham. The concernancy, sir? Why do we wrap the gentleman in our more
  Ham. The King doth wake to-night and takes his rouse,
  Ham. The King my father?
  Ham. The phrase would be more germane to the matter if we could
  Ham. The point envenom'd too?
  Ham. Then are our beggars bodies, and our monarchs and outstretch'd
  Ham. Then came each actor on his ass-
  Ham. Then I would you were so honest a man.
  Ham. Then is doomsday near! But your news is not true. Let me
  Ham. Then saw you not his face?
  Ham. Then will I come to my mother by-and-by.- They fool me to the
  Ham. Then you live about her waist, or in the middle of her
  Ham. There's another. Why may not that be the skull of a lawyer?
  Ham. There's letters seal'd; and my two schoolfellows,
  Ham. There's neer a villain dwelling in all Denmark
  Ham. These tedious old fools!
  Ham. They are coming to the play. I must be idle.  
  Ham. They are sheep and calves which seek out assurance in that. I  
  Ham. This likes me well. These foils have all a length?
  Ham. This?
  Ham. Thou dost lie in't, to be in't and say it is thine. 'Tis for
  Ham. Thou pray'st not well.
  Ham. Thrift, thrift, Horatio! The funeral bak'd meats
  Ham. To be, or not to be- that is the question:
  Ham. To this effect, sir, after what flourish your nature will.
  Ham. To what base uses we may return, Horatio! Why may not
  Ham. Two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats
  Ham. Up from my cabin,
  Ham. Upon my sword.
  Ham. Upon the talk of the poisoning?
  Ham. Upon what ground?
  Ham. Very like, very like. Stay'd it long?  
  Ham. Very well, my lord.
  Ham. Very well. Follow that lord- and look you mock him not.
  Ham. We shall know by this fellow. The players cannot keep counsel;
  Ham. We shall obey, were she ten times our mother. Have you any
  Ham. We'll ha't to-morrow night. You could, for a need, study a
  Ham. Well said, old mole! Canst work i' th' earth so fast?
  Ham. Well, God-a-mercy.
  Ham. What call you the carriages?
  Ham. What did you enact?
  Ham. What hour now?
  Ham. What imports the nomination of this gentleman
  Ham. What man dost thou dig it for?
  Ham. What woman then?
  Ham. What's his weapon?
  Ham. What's the matter now?
  Ham. What, are they children? Who maintains 'em? How are they
  Ham. What, frighted with false fire?
  Ham. What, ho, Horatio!
  Ham. What, look'd he frowningly.
  Ham. What, the fair Ophelia?
  Ham. What?
  Ham. Whither wilt thou lead me? Speak! I'll go no further.
  Ham. Who commands them, sir?
  Ham. Who is to be buried in't?
  Ham. Who, I?
  Ham. Whose was it?
  Ham. Why did you laugh then, when I said 'Man delights not me'?
  Ham. Why he more than another?
  Ham. Why,
  Ham. Why,
  Ham. Why, anything- but to th' purpose. You were sent for; and
  Ham. Why, e'en so! and now my Lady Worm's, chapless, and knock'd
  Ham. Why, even in that was heaven ordinant.
  Ham. Why, I will fight with him upon this theme
  Ham. Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing you make of me! You
  Ham. Why, look you there! Look how it steals away!  
  Ham. Why, man, they did make love to this employment!
  Ham. Why, right! You are in the right!
  Ham. Why, then 'tis none to you; for there is nothing either good
  Ham. Why, then the Polack never will defend it.
  Ham. Why, what should be the fear?
  Ham. Why?
  Ham. With drink, sir?
  Ham. Words, words, words.
  Ham. Yes, by Saint Patrick, but there is, Horatio,
  Ham. You are welcome.
  Ham. You cannot, sir, take from me anything that I will more
  Ham. You should not have believ'd me; for virtue cannot so
  Ham. Your loves, as mine to you. Farewell.
  Ham. Your wisdom should show itself more richer to signify this to
  Ham. Yours, yours. [Exit Osric.] He does well to commend it
  Hamlet, son to the former, and nephew to the present king.
  Hor [aside to Hamlet] Is't not possible to understand in another
  Hor. 'Tis here!
  Hor. 'Twere good she were spoken with; for she may strew
  Hor. 'Twere to consider too curiously, to consider so.  
  Hor. (reads the letter) 'Horatio, when thou shalt have overlook'd
  Hor. (within) My lord, my lord!
  Hor. [aside to Hamlet] I knew you must be edified by the margent
  Hor. [aside to Hamlet] No, my good lord.
  Hor. [aside] His purse is empty already. All's golden words are
  Hor. A countenance more in sorrow than in anger.
  Hor. A mote it is to trouble the mind's eye.
  Hor. A piece of him.
  Hor. A truant disposition, good my lord.
  Hor. And then it started, like a guilty thing  
  Hor. As I do live, my honour'd lord, 'tis true;  
  Hor. As thou art to thyself.
  Hor. Ay, good my lord.
  Hor. Ay, my lord, And of calveskins too.
  Hor. Ay, my lord.
  Hor. Be rul'd. You shall not go.
  Hor. Before my God, I might not this believe
  Hor. Custom hath made it in him a Property of easiness.
  Hor. Do not, my lord!
  Hor. Do, if it will not stand.
  Hor. E'en so, my lord.
  Hor. E'en so.
  Hor. Friends to this ground.
  Hor. Good my lord, be quiet.
  Hor. Good my lord, tell it.
  Hor. Hail to your lordship!
  Hor. Half a share.
  Hor. Have after. To what issue wail this come?
  Hor. He waxes desperate with imagination.
  Hor. Heaven secure him!
  Hor. Heaven will direct it.
  Hor. Here, sweet lord, at your service.
  Hor. How was this seal'd?
  Hor. I beseech you.
  Hor. I did very well note him.
  Hor. I saw him once. He was a goodly king.  
  Hor. I think it lacks of twelve.
  Hor. I warr'nt it will.
  Hor. If your mind dislike anything, obey it. I will forestall their
  Hor. In faith,
  Hor. In what particular thought to work I know not;
  Hor. Indeed, my lord, it followed hard upon.
  Hor. Indeed? I heard it not. It then draws near the season
  Hor. Is it a custom?
  Hor. Is't possible?
  Hor. It beckons you to go away with it,
  Hor. It is a nipping and an eager air.
  Hor. It might, my lord.
  Hor. It must be shortly known to him from England
  Hor. It was, as I have seen it in his life,
  Hor. It would have much amaz'd you.
  Hor. Let him bless thee too.
  Hor. Let them come in.
  Hor. Look, my lord, it comes!
  Hor. Most constantly.
  Hor. Most like. It harrows me with fear and wonder.
  Hor. My lord, I came to see your father's funeral.
  Hor. My lord, I did;
  Hor. My lord, I think I saw him yesternight.
  Hor. My lord, the King your father.
  Hor. Nay, good my lord -
  Hor. Nay, very pale.
  Hor. Never believe it.
  Hor. No, by no means!
  Hor. Not a jot more, my lord.
  Hor. Not from his mouth,
  Hor. Not I, my lord, by heaven!
  Hor. Not when I saw't.
  Hor. Now cracks a noble heart. Good night, sweet prince,
  Hor. O day and night, but this is wondrous strange!
  Hor. O, my dear lord!
  Hor. O, where, my lord?
  Hor. O, yes, my lord! He wore his beaver up.
  Hor. Of that I shall have also cause to speak,
  Hor. Peace! Who comes here?
  Hor. Propose the oath, my lord.  
  Hor. Remember it, my lord!
  Hor. Season your admiration for a while
  Hor. So Guildenstern and Rosencrantz go to't.
  Hor. So have I heard and do in part believe it.
  Hor. Stay! Speak, speak! I charge thee speak!
  Hor. That can I.
  Hor. That is most certain.
  Hor. The same, my lord, and your poor servant ever.
  Hor. There needs no ghost, my lord, come from the grave
  Hor. There's no offence, my lord.
  Hor. These are but wild and whirling words, my lord.
  Hor. They bleed on both sides. How is it, my lord?
  Hor. This lapwing runs away with the shell on his head.  
  Hor. Tush, tush, 'twill not appear.
  Hor. Two nights together had these gentlemen
  Hor. Very well, my lord.
  Hor. Well, my lord.
  Hor. Well, sit we down,
  Hor. What are they that would speak with me?
  Hor. What art thou that usurp'st this time of night
  Hor. What if it tempt you toward the flood, my lord,
  Hor. What is it you will see?
  Hor. What is't, my lord? We will.
  Hor. What news, my lord?
  Hor. What's that, my lord?
  Hor. While one with moderate haste might tell a hundred.
  Hor. Why, what a king is this!
  Hor. You might have rhym'd.
  Hor. You will lose this wager, my lord.
  Horatio, friend to Hamlet.
  King. 'Tis Hamlet's character. 'Naked!'
  King. 'Tis sweet and commendable in your nature, Hamlet,
  King. [aside] It is the poison'd cup; it is too late.
  King. [aside] O, 'tis too true!
  King. [rises] My words fly up, my thoughts remain below.
  King. A Norman.
  King. A very riband in the cap of youth-
  King. Alas, alas!
  King. And can you by no drift of circumstance
  King. Arm you, I pray you, to th', speedy voyage;
  King. As of a man faithful and honourable.
  King. At supper? Where?
  King. Ay, Hamlet.
  King. Break not your sleeps for that. You must not think
  King. Bring him before us.
  King. But how hath she
  King. But where is he?
  King. Come, Hamlet, come, and take this hand from me.
  King. Conceit upon her father.
  King. Dead.
  King. Do you think 'tis this?
  King. Follow her close; give her good watch, I pray you.
  King. Follow him at foot; tempt him with speed aboard.
  King. From Hamlet? Who brought them?
  King. Gertrude, do not drink.
  King. Give me some light! Away!
  King. Give them the foils, young Osric. Cousin Hamlet,
  King. Go seek him there. [To Attendants.]
  King. Good Laertes,
  King. Hamlet, this deed, for thine especial safety,-
  King. Have you heard the argument? Is there no offence in't?
  King. Have you your father's leave? What says Polonius?
  King. He made confession of you;
  King. How do you, pretty lady?
  King. How fares our cousin Hamlet?
  King. How is it that the clouds still hang on you?
  King. How long hath she been thus?
  King. How may we try it further?
  King. I do not fear it, I have seen you both;
  King. I do not think't.
  King. I have nothing with this answer, Hamlet. These words are not
  King. I have sent to seek him and to find the body.
  King. I like him not, nor stands it safe with us
  King. I pray thee, good Horatio, wait upon him.
  King. If it be so, Laertes
  King. It falls right.
  King. It likes us well;
  King. It shall be so.
  King. Laertes, I must commune with your grief,
  King. Laertes, was your father dear to you?
  King. Laertes, you shall hear them.
  King. Let him demand his fill.
  King. Let's follow, Gertrude.  
  King. Let's further think of this,
  King. Love? his affections do not that way tend;  
  King. No place indeed should murther sanctuarize;
  King. Not that I know.
  King. Not that I think you did not love your father;
  King. Now must your conscience my acquittance seal,
  King. Now, Hamlet, where's Polonius?
  King. O Gertrude, come away!
  King. O heavy deed!
  King. O, for two special reasons,
  King. O, he is mad, Laertes.
  King. O, speak of that! That do I long to hear.
  King. O, yet defend me, friends! I am but hurt.
  King. Our son shall win.
  King. Part them! They are incens'd.
  King. Pluck thein asunder.
  King. Pretty Ophelia!
  King. Set me the stoups of wine upon that table.
  King. She sounds to see them bleed.
  King. So is it, if thou knew'st our purposes.
  King. So you shall;
  King. Stay, give me drink. Hamlet, this pearl is thine;
  King. Sweet Gertrude, leave us too;
  King. Take thy fair hour, Laertes. Time be thine,
  King. Thanks, dear my lord.
  King. Thanks, Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern.
  King. The doors are broke.
  King. The very same.
  King. There's matter in these sighs. These profound heaves
  King. Thou still hast been the father of good news.
  King. Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother's death
  King. Thy loving father, Hamlet.
  King. Thyself do grace to them, and bring them in.
  King. To thine own peace. If he be now return'd
  King. We doubt it nothing. Heartily farewell.
  King. We will try it.
  King. Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
  King. Well, we shall sift him.
  King. What do you call the play?
  King. What dost thou mean by this?  
  King. What is the cause, Laertes,
  King. What, Gertrude? How does Hamlet?
  King. Where are my Switzers? Let them guard the door.
  King. Where is Polonius?
  King. Who shall stay you?
  King. Why, 'tis a loving and a fair reply.
  King. Why, now You speak
  King. Will you know them then?
  King. With all my heart, and it doth much content me
  Laer. [aside] And yet it is almost against my conscience.
  Laer. A document in madness! Thoughts and remembrance fitted.
  Laer. A Norman was't?
  Laer. A touch, a touch; I do confess't.
  Laer. Alas, then she is drown'd?
  Laer. And so have I a noble father lost;
  Laer. Ay my lord,
  Laer. Come, my lord.                                They play.
  Laer. Come, one for me.
  Laer. Do you see this, O God?
  Laer. Drown'd! O, where?
  Laer. Farewell, Ophelia, and remember well
  Laer. Farewell.                                          Exit.
  Laer. For Hamlet, and the trifling of his favour,
  Laer. Hadst thou thy wits, and didst persuade revenge,
  Laer. Have at you now!
  Laer. He is justly serv'd.
  Laer. How came he dead? I'll not be juggled with:
  Laer. How now? What noise is that?
  Laer. I am lost in it, my lord. But let him come!
  Laer. I am satisfied in nature,
  Laer. I know him well. He is the broach indeed
  Laer. I pray you give me leave.
  Laer. I thank you. Keep the door.      [Exeunt his Followers.]
  Laer. I will do't!
  Laer. It is here, Hamlet. Hamlet, thou art slain;
  Laer. It well appears. But tell me
  Laer. Know you the hand?
  Laer. Lay her i' th' earth;
  Laer. Let this be so.
  Laer. Most humbly do I take my leave, my lord.
  Laer. Must there no more be done?
  Laer. My dread lord,
  Laer. My lord, I will be rul'd;
  Laer. My lord, I'll hit him now.
  Laer. My necessaries are embark'd. Farewell.
  Laer. My will, not all the world!
  Laer. No.
  Laer. None but his enemies.
  Laer. O, fear me not!
  Laer. O, treble woe
  Laer. Say you so? Come on.                               Play.
  Laer. That drop of blood that's calm proclaims me bastard;
  Laer. The devil take thy soul!
  Laer. Think it no more.
  Laer. This is too heavy; let me see another.
  Laer. This nothing's more than matter.
  Laer. Thought and affliction, passion, hell itself,
  Laer. To cut his throat i' th' church!
  Laer. To his good friends thus wide I'll ope my arms
  Laer. Too much of water hast thou, poor Ophelia,
  Laer. Upon my life, Lamound.
  Laer. Well, again!
  Laer. What ceremony else?
  Laer. What ceremony else?
  Laer. What out of this, my lord?
  Laer. What part is that, my lord?
  Laer. Where is my father?
  Laer. Where is this king?- Sirs, staid you all without.
  Laer. Why ask you this?
  Laer. Why, as a woodcock to mine own springe, Osric.
  Laer. You mock me, sir.
  Laertes, son to Polonius.
  Lord. My lord, his Majesty commended him to you by young Osric, who
  Lord. The King and Queen and all are coming down.
  Lord. The Queen desires you to use some gentle entertainment to
  Lords, ladies, Officers, Soldiers, Sailors, Messengers, Attendants.
  Mar. 'Tis gone and will not answer.
  Mar. 'Tis gone!
  Mar. And liegemen to the Dane.
  Mar. Good now, sit down, and tell me he that knows,
  Mar. Holla, Bernardo!
  Mar. Horatio says 'tis but our fantasy,
  Mar. How is't, my noble lord?
  Mar. Illo, ho, ho, my lord!
  Mar. Is it not like the King?
  Mar. It faded on the crowing of the cock.
  Mar. It is offended.
  Mar. Let's follow. 'Tis not fit thus to obey him.
  Mar. Look with what courteous action
  Mar. Lord Hamlet!
  Mar. My good lord!
  Mar. My lord, upon the platform where we watch'd.
  Mar. Nay, let's follow him.
  Mar. No, it is struck.
  Mar. Nor I, my lord- in faith.
  Mar. Nor I, my lord.
  Mar. O, farewell, honest soldier.
  Mar. O, wonderful!
  Mar. Peace! break thee off! Look where it comes again!
  Mar. Question it, Horatio.
  Mar. Shall I strike at it with my partisan?
  Mar. Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.
  Mar. Thou art a scholar; speak to it, Horatio.
  Mar. Thus twice before, and jump at this dead hour,
  Mar. We have sworn, my lord, already.
  Mar. What, has this thing appear'd again to-night?
  Mar. You shall not go, my lord.
  Marcellus, officer.
  Marcellus, Officer.
  Mess. Letters, my lord, from Hamlet:
  Mess. Sailors, my lord, they say; I saw them not.
  Mess. Save Yourself, my lord:
  Oph. 'Tis brief, my lord.
  Oph. 'Tis in my memory lock'd,
  Oph. (sings)
  Oph. (sings)
  Oph. (Sings)
  Oph. (sings)
  Oph. And hath given countenance to his speech, my lord,
  Oph. At home, my lord.
  Oph. Ay, my lord.
  Oph. Ay, my lord.
  Oph. Belike this show imports the argument of the play.
  Oph. Could beauty, my lord, have better commerce than with honesty?
  Oph. Do you doubt that?
  Oph. Good my lord,
  Oph. He hath, my lord, of late made many tenders
  Oph. He took me by the wrist and held me hard;
  Oph. I do not know, my lord, what I should think,
  Oph. I hope all will be well. We must be patient; but I cannot
  Oph. I shall obey, my lord.
  Oph. I shall th' effect of this good lesson keep
  Oph. I think nothing, my lord.
  Oph. I was the more deceived.
  Oph. Indeed, la, without an oath, I'll make an end on't!
  Oph. Indeed, my lord, you made me believe so.
  Oph. Madam, I wish it may.
  Oph. My honour'd lord, you know right well you did,
  Oph. My lord, as I was sewing in my closet,
  Oph. My lord, he hath importun'd me with love
  Oph. My lord, I do not know,
  Oph. My lord, I have remembrances of yours
  Oph. My lord?
  Oph. Nay 'tis twice two months, my lord.
  Oph. No more but so?
  Oph. No, my good lord; but, as you did command,
  Oph. No, my lord.
  Oph. O heavenly powers, restore him!
  Oph. O my lord, my lord, I have been so affrighted!
  Oph. O, help him, you sweet heavens!
  Oph. O, what a noble mind is here o'erthrown!
  Oph. Pray let's have no words of this; but when they ask, you what
  Oph. Pray you mark.
  Oph. Say you? Nay, pray You mark.
  Oph. So please you, something touching the Lord Hamlet.  
  Oph. Still better, and worse.
  Oph. The King rises.
  Oph. There's fennel for you, and columbines. There's rue for you,
  Oph. There's rosemary, that's for remembrance. Pray you, love,
  Oph. Well, God dild you! They say the owl was a baker's daughter.  
  Oph. What is, my lord?
  Oph. What means this, my lord?
  Oph. What means your lordship?
  Oph. Where is the beauteous Majesty of Denmark?
  Oph. Will he tell us what this show meant?
  Oph. You are as good as a chorus, my lord.
  Oph. You are keen, my lord, you are keen.
  Oph. You are merry, my lord.
  Oph. You are naught, you are naught! I'll mark the play.
  Oph. You must sing 'A-down a-down, and you call him a-down-a.' O,
  Ophelia, daughter to Polonius.
  Osr. A hit, a very palpable hit.
  Osr. Ay, my good lord.
  Osr. Exceedingly, my lord; it is very sultry, as 'twere- I cannot
  Osr. How is't, Laertes?
  Osr. I commend my duty to your lordship.
  Osr. I know you are not ignorant-
  Osr. I mean, my lord, the opposition of your person in trial.
  Osr. I mean, sir, for his weapon; but in the imputation laid on him
  Osr. I thank your lordship, it is very hot.
  Osr. It is indifferent cold, my lord, indeed.
  Osr. Look to the Queen there, ho!
  Osr. Nay, good my lord; for mine ease, in good faith. Sir, here is
  Osr. Nothing neither way.
  Osr. Of Laertes?
  Osr. Rapier and dagger.
  Osr. Shall I redeliver you e'en so?
  Osr. Sir?
  Osr. Sweet lord, if your lordship were at leisure, I should impart
  Osr. The carriages, sir, are the hangers.
  Osr. The King, sir, hath laid that, in a dozen passes between
  Osr. The King, sir, hath wager'd with him six Barbary horses;
  Osr. You are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes is-
  Osr. Young Fortinbras, with conquest come from Poland,
  Osr. Your lordship is right welcome back to Denmark.
  Osr. Your lordship speaks most infallibly of him.
  Osric, courtier.
  Other. But is this law?
  Other. Go to!
  Other. I tell thee she is; therefore make her grave straight.
  Other. Marry, now I can tell!
  Other. Mass, I cannot tell.
  Other. Nay, but hear you, Goodman Delver!
  Other. The gallows-maker; for that frame outlives a thousand  
  Other. Was he a gentleman?
  Other. Who builds stronger than a mason, a shipwright, or a
  Other. Why, 'tis found so.
  Other. Why, he had none.
  Other. Will you ha' the truth an't? If this had not been a
  Player. I hope we have reform'd that indifferently with us, sir.
  Player. I warrant your honour.
  Players.
  Pol. 'And in part him, but,' you may say, 'not well.
  Pol. 'Tis most true;
  Pol. [aside] How say you by that? Still harping on my daughter. Yet
  Pol. [aside] Still on my daughter.
  Pol. [aside] Though this be madness, yet there is a method in't.-
  Pol. [behind] O, I am slain!
  Pol. [behind] What, ho! help, help, help!
  Pol. [points to his head and shoulder] Take this from this, if this
  Pol. [to the King] O, ho! do you mark that?
  Pol. Affection? Pooh! You speak like a green girl,
  Pol. And let him ply his music.
  Pol. And the Queen too, and that presently.
  Pol. And then, sir, does 'a this- 'a does- What was I about to say?
  Pol. At 'closes in the consequence'- Ay, marry!
  Pol. At such a time I'll loose my daughter to him.
  Pol. Away, I do beseech you, both away
  Pol. Ay, fashion you may call it. Go to, go to!
  Pol. Ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing, quarrelling,
  Pol. Ay, springes to catch woodcocks! I do know,
  Pol. By th' mass, and 'tis like a camel indeed.
  Pol. Come, go with me. I will go seek the King.
  Pol. Come, sirs.
  Pol. Do you know me, my lord?
  Pol. Faith, no, as you may season it in the charge.
  Pol. Fare you well, my lord.
  Pol. Farewell!
  Pol. Fore God, my lord, well spoken, with good accent and good
  Pol. Give first admittance to th' ambassadors.
  Pol. Give him this money and these notes, Reynaldo.
  Pol. Give o'er the play.
  Pol. God b' wi' ye, fare ye well!
  Pol. Good madam, stay awhile. I will be faithful.     [Reads.]  
  Pol. Hath there been such a time- I would fain know that-
  Pol. Have I, my lord? Assure you, my good liege,
  Pol. He hath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave
  Pol. He will come straight. Look you lay home to him.
  Pol. Honest, my lord?
  Pol. I did enact Julius Caesar; I was kill'd i' th' Capitol; Brutus
  Pol. I have, my lord.
  Pol. I hear him coming. Let's withdraw, my lord.
  Pol. I mean, the matter that you read, my lord.
  Pol. I will say so.                                      Exit.
  Pol. I would fain prove so. But what might you think,  
  Pol. If you call me Jephthah, my lord, I have a daughter that I
  Pol. Indeed, that is out o' th' air. [Aside] How pregnant sometimes
  Pol. It is back'd like a weasel.
  Pol. It shall do well. But yet do I believe
  Pol. Look, whe'r he has not turn'd his colour, and has tears in's
  Pol. Mad for thy love?  
  Pol. Madam, I swear I use no art at all.
  Pol. Marry, I will teach you! Think yourself a baby
  Pol. Marry, sir, here's my drift,
  Pol. Marry, well bethought!
  Pol. Marry, well said, very well said. Look you, sir,
  Pol. My lord, he's going to his mother's closet.
  Pol. My lord, I have news to tell you.
  Pol. My lord, I will use them according to their desert.
  Pol. My lord, the Queen would speak with you, and presently.
  Pol. Not I, my lord.
  Pol. Observe his inclination in yourself.  
  Pol. Ophelia, walk you here.- Gracious, so please you,
  Pol. Th' ambassadors from Norway, my good lord,
  Pol. That did I, my lord, and was accounted a good actor.
  Pol. That hath made him mad.
  Pol. That's good! 'Mobled queen' is good.
  Pol. That's very true, my lord.
  Pol. The actors are come hither, my lord.
  Pol. The best actors in the world, either for tragedy, comedy,
  Pol. The time invites you. Go, your servants tend.
  Pol. This business is well ended.
  Pol. This is too long.
  Pol. Upon my honour-
  Pol. Very like a whale.
  Pol. Well be with you, gentlemen!
  Pol. What do you think of me?
  Pol. What follows then, my lord?
  Pol. What is the matter, my lord?
  Pol. What is't, Ophelia, he hath said to you?
  Pol. What said he?
  Pol. What treasure had he, my lord?
  Pol. Wherefore should you do this?
  Pol. With what, i' th' name of God I
  Pol. Yet here, Laertes? Aboard, aboard, for shame!
  Pol. You go to seek the Lord Hamlet. There he is.
  Pol. You know sometimes he walks four hours together
  Pol. You shall do marvell's wisely, good Reynaldo,
  Polonius, Lord Chamberlain.
  Priest. Her obsequies have been as far enlarg'd
  Priest. No more be done.
  Queen. Alack,
  Queen. Alack, what noise is this?
  Queen. Alas, he's mad!
  Queen. Alas, how is't with you,  
  Queen. Alas, look here, my lord!
  Queen. Alas, sweet lady, what imports this song?
  Queen. As kill a king?
  Queen. Ay me, what act,
  Queen. Ay, amen!
  Queen. Be thou assur'd, if words be made of breath,
  Queen. Bestow this place on us a little while.
  Queen. But look where sadly the poor wretch comes reading.
  Queen. But not by him!
  Queen. Calmly, good Laertes.
  Queen. Came this from Hamlet to her?
  Queen. Come hither, my dear Hamlet, sit by me.
  Queen. Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue.
  Queen. Come, let me wipe thy face.
  Queen. Did he receive you well?
  Queen. Did you assay him  
  Queen. Drown'd, drown'd.
  Queen. For love of God, forbear him!
  Queen. Good gentlemen, he hath much talk'd of you,
  Queen. Good Hamlet, cast thy nighted colour off,
  Queen. Hamlet, Hamlet!
  Queen. Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offended.
  Queen. Have you forgot me?
  Queen. He's fat, and scant of breath.
  Queen. How cheerfully on the false trail they cry!  
  Queen. How fares my lord?
  Queen. How now, Ophelia?
  Queen. I doubt it is no other but the main,
  Queen. I shall obey you;
  Queen. I will not speak with her.
  Queen. I will, my lord; I pray you pardon me.          Drinks.
  Queen. I'll warrant you; fear me not. Withdraw; I hear him coming.
  Queen. If it be,
  Queen. it may be, very like.
  Queen. Let her come in.  
  Queen. Let not thy mother lose her prayers, Hamlet.
  Queen. Mad as the sea and wind when both contend
  Queen. More matter, with less art.
  Queen. Nay, but Ophelia-
  Queen. Nay, then I'll set those to you that can speak.
  Queen. No more!
  Queen. No, no! the drink, the drink! O my dear Hamlet!
  Queen. No, nothing but ourselves.
  Queen. Nothing at all; yet all that is I see.
  Queen. O Hamlet, speak no more!
  Queen. O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain.
  Queen. O me, what hast thou done?
  Queen. O my son, what theme?  
  Queen. O, speak to me no more!
  Queen. O, what a rash and bloody deed is this!
  Queen. One woe doth tread upon another's heel,
  Queen. So he does indeed.
  Queen. Sweets to the sweet! Farewell.
  Queen. Thanks, Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz.  
  Queen. The lady doth protest too much, methinks.
  Queen. There is a willow grows aslant a brook,
  Queen. This is mere madness;
  Queen. This is the very coinage of your brain.
  Queen. To draw apart the body he hath kill'd;
  Queen. To whom do you speak this?
  Queen. What have I done that thou dar'st wag thy tongue
  Queen. What shall I do?
  Queen. What wilt thou do? Thou wilt not murther me?
  Queen. What would she have?
  Queen. Why, how now, Hamlet?  
  Rey. As gaming, my lord.
  Rey. At 'closes in the consequence,' at 'friend or so,' and  
  Rey. Ay, my lord,
  Rey. Ay, very well, my lord.  
  Rey. But, my good lord-
  Rey. Good my lord!                                    [Going.]
  Rey. I shall, my lord.
  Rey. I will, my lord.
  Rey. My lord, I did intend it.
  Rey. My lord, I have.
  Rey. My lord, that would dishonour him.
  Rey. Very good, my lord.
  Rey. Well, my lord.
  Reynaldo, servant to Polonius.
  Ros. [aside to Guildenstern] What say you?
  Ros. [to Polonius] God save you, sir!
  Ros. As the indifferent children of the earth.
  Ros. Ay, my lord. They stay upon your patience.
  Ros. Ay, that they do, my lord- Hercules and his load too.
  Ros. Believe what?
  Ros. Both your Majesties
  Ros. Even those you were wont to take such delight in, the
  Ros. Faith, there has been much to do on both sides; and the nation
  Ros. Good my lord!
  Ros. Good my lord, what is your cause of distemper? You do surely
  Ros. Happily he's the second time come to them; for they say an old
  Ros. He does confess he feels himself distracted,
  Ros. Ho, Guildenstern! Bring in my lord.
  Ros. How can that be, when you have the voice of the King himself
  Ros. I think their inhibition comes by the means of the late
  Ros. I understand you not, my lord.
  Ros. Madam, it so fell out that certain players
  Ros. Most like a gentleman.
  Ros. My lord, there was no such stuff in my thoughts.  
  Ros. My lord, you must tell us where the body is and go with us to
  Ros. My lord, you once did love me.
  Ros. My most dear lord!
  Ros. Nay, their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace; but there is,
  Ros. Neither, my lord.
  Ros. Niggard of question, but of our demands
  Ros. No indeed are they not.  
  Ros. None, my lord, but that the world's grown honest.
  Ros. She desires to speak with you in her closet ere you go to bed.
  Ros. Take you me for a sponge, my lord?
  Ros. Tell us where 'tis, that we may take it thence
  Ros. The single and peculiar life is bound
  Ros. Then is the world one.
  Ros. Then thus she says: your behaviour hath struck her into
  Ros. To think, my lord, if you delight not in man, what lenten
  Ros. To visit you, my lord; no other occasion.
  Ros. To what end, my lord?
  Ros. Truly, and I hold ambition of so airy and light a quality that
  Ros. We shall, my lord.
  Ros. We think not so, my lord.
  Ros. What have you done, my lord, with the dead body?
  Ros. Where the dead body is bestow'd, my lord,
  Ros. Why, then your ambition makes it one. 'Tis too narrow for your
  Ros. Will't please you go, my lord?
  Ros. Without, my lord; guarded, to know your pleasure.
  Rosencrantz, courtier.
  Sailor. 'A shall, sir, an't please him. There's a letter for you,
  Sailor. God bless you, sir.
  Servant. Seafaring men, sir. They say they have letters for you.
  Two Clowns, gravediggers.
  Volt. Most fair return of greetings and desires.
  Voltemand, courtier.
 and then, you know,
1604
A room in the Castle.
ACT I. Scene I.
Act II. Scene I.
ACT III. Scene I.
ACT IV. Scene I.
ACT V. Scene I.
at his post; then] Bernardo, [who approaches him].
by William Shakespeare
Dramatis Personae
Elsinore. A churchyard.
Elsinore. A hall in the Castle.
Elsinore. A passage in the Castle.
Elsinore. A platform before the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the house of Polonius.
Elsinore. A room in the house of Polonius.
Elsinore. A room of state in the Castle.
Elsinore. Another room in the Castle.
Elsinore. Another room in the Castle.
Elsinore. hall in the Castle.
Elsinore. The Castle. Another part of the fortifications.
Elsinore. The platform before the Castle.
Enter Fortinbras with his Army over the stage.
Enter Ghost and Hamlet.
Enter Hamlet and Horatio.
Enter Hamlet and three of the Players.
Enter Hamlet, Horatio, and Marcellus.
Enter Hamlet.
Enter Horatio with an Attendant.
Enter Horatio, Queen, and a Gentleman.
Enter King and Laertes.
Enter King and Queen, with Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, and Lords.
Enter King, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern.
Enter King.
Enter Laertes and Ophelia.
Enter Polonius and Reynaldo.
Enter Queen and Polonius.
Enter two Clowns, [with spades and pickaxes].
Enter two Sentinels-[first,] Francisco, [who paces up and down
Exit.
Exit.
Exit.
Exit.
Exit.
Flourish. [Enter Claudius, King of Denmark, Gertrude the Queen, Hamlet,
Flourish. [Enter King and Queen, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, cum aliis.
Lords Attendant.
Near Elsinore.
Polonius, Laertes and his sister Ophelia, [Voltemand, Cornelius,]
Scene II.
Scene II.
Scene II.
Scene II.
Scene II.
Scene III.
Scene III.
Scene III.
Scene IV.
Scene IV.
Scene IV.
Scene V.
Scene V.
Scene VI.
Scene VII.
SCENE.- Elsinore.
THE END
The Queen's closet.
THE TRAGEDY OF HAMLET, PRINCE OF DENMARK
